Q1 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
11,576 words
13 April 2012
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's first quarter 2012 earnings
call. This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the conference. We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand
by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief
Financial Officer, Doug Braunstein. Mr. Braunstein, please go ahead.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Thanks, operator. I am going to be taking you
through the earnings presentation, which as you know, is available on our website. I would also ask everyone to
refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
And with that, if you all turn to page one, for the quarter we generated net income of a $5.4 billion, $1.31 per
share. That is on revenues of $27.4 billion, up 6% year-on-year, 24% quarter-on-quarter. Return on tangible
common equity of 16% for the quarter and I would characterize that as solid performance across most of our
businesses, particularly strong results in the Investment Bank and significant improvement year-over-year in
Mortgage Banking.
There are a number of significant items that we are highlighting here on this page. We do that every quarter. It
includes DVA, reserve releases, litigation build in the WaMu settlement.
Every quarter we also have some modest pluses and minuses. We don't put these up front, but if you did total
these significant items they had an aggregate negative impact of $0.09 a share on our reported numbers this
quarter. I am going to discuss them in much more detail as we go through the financials.
Strong capital generation in the quarter. We ended with Tier 1 common of $128 billion dollars, that is up $5
billion-plus; strong Basel I and Basel III ratios of 10.4% and 8.4%, respectively. And I wanted to just highlight a
couple of trends for the quarter and then we will go into the businesses.
First is, if you look across our businesses, we have continuing signs of underlying fundamental growth. So 23%
loan growth across wholesale year-on-year. Record Middle Market loans this quarter, up 19% year-on-year. $4
billion of credit provided to small businesses, that is up 35% year-on-year.
Record Retail channel mortgage originations, up 11% this year. Deposits in CBB up 8% year-over-year. Sales
volume in Card up 12% year-over-year. And so the underlying fundamentals year-on-year look strong.
On the credit side, we continue to have stable and good credit results in our Wholesale business and on the
Consumer side-real, continuing improvement in Consumer. I would say in aggregate we are putting on better
quality loans today from that loan growth, but just two quick statistics. In Mortgage, net charge-offs are down 25%
year-on-year; in Card, net charge-offs are down 37% year-on-year.
So with that it's sort of an underlying theme. Let's turn to the Investment Bank on page three.

Page 1 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

For the quarter you see circled net income of $1.7 billion. That is on revenues of $7.3 billion, reported ROE of
17%.
On page one we did highlight $900 million in DVA losses pretax for the IB this quarter. And as we have
mentioned consistently in the past, we don't consider the DVA as a part of our core business results. In fact, after
the changes from this quarter, if you remember the spread widening, we saw in the third quarter of 2011 where
we booked a $1.9 billion gain on DVA.
In the last two quarters we have now reversed $1.5 billion of that, and obviously if spreads returned to the level
they were last summer we would have gone round trip. So I am going to focus on the IB numbers excluding all
DVA.
So in the first quarter revenues were $8.2 billion, $2.2 billion in net income, and we had a 23% return on equity.
Those numbers are all very comparable to what was a very strong first quarter of 2011, but I do want to remind
everyone that we tend to have a seasonally strong first quarter to start the year.
IB fees in the quarter of $1.4 billion. That is down 23% year-on-year, up 23% quarter-on-quarter, and if you look
on appendix page nine you will see we continue to maintain our number one market-leading share in fees.
Markets revenues were relatively flat year-on-year. On a linked-quarter basis revenues were up significantly.
Fixed income revenue was $5 billion and that reflected continued solid client revenues across the products,
particular strength this quarter in our Global Rates business.
Equities revenue of $1.4 billion really approved results across cash and derivatives, and we continue to have
improving performance from our Prime Services. We are seeing increased balances there, a little improved
leverage in the markets, and a modest uptick in spreads.
Credit portfolio revenue was a little over $400 million, up from the fourth quarter, and then expenses in the quarter
of $4.7 billion were down 6% year-on-year. The comp-to-revenue ratio, ex DVA, which is the way we manage it,
was 35% for the quarter.
If you go directly to page five, Consumer & Business Banking, you will see circled net income of $775 million.
That is down 13% year-on-year. And an ROE for this business of 35% for the quarter.
Revenue of $4.3 billion. That is relatively flat quarter-on-quarter but down 4% year-on-year, and that reduction
year-over-year is generally consistent with our guidance on the impact of the Durbin Amendment, which we had
this quarter and didn't come through in the first quarter of last year.
We continue to see solid year-over-year underlying performance trends in the business, so the deposit is up $29
billion, which I talked about, up 8%. We believe that is a growth rate faster than the industry growth rate. Business
banking originations up 8% year-on-year.
We had very strong investment sales this quarter as the markets improved and we continue to build out CPC, our
Chase Private Client business, up 41% quarter-on-quarter. In fact, client investment assets of $147 billion are a
record for Chase Wealth Management.
On page six you see Mortgage Production and Servicing. Circled net income of $460 million for the quarter, that
compared with a net loss of $1.1 billion in the prior year, so $1.5 billion swing year-on-year. We had very strong
production-related revenues of $1.6 billion and that is driven somewhat by higher volumes. Originations were up
6% year-on-year; applications, as I mentioned, up 33%; a very favorable refinancing environment including the
impact of HARP 2.0.
But we also had higher margins this quarter as a function of those volumes and some mix issues. We should be
cautious about that because we are likely to see those margins returned to more normalized levels on a
go-forward basis.
Repurchase losses in the quarter were $300 million. That is lower than our expectations on a quarterly basis,
which remained $350 million plus or minus. In large part that was a function of timing.
If you now move to the servicing side, in the middle of the page you will see expenses there of $1.2 billion. That
includes approximately $200 million of costs for the foreclosure-related matters associated with the settlement. So
if you exclude that $200 million, servicing costs continue to remain very elevated at $950 million for the quarter.
And of that number $700 million is related to default expense, which was essentially flat quarter-on-quarter but
very, very high.
Page 2 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

As we discussed at Investor Day, you should expect to see our servicing costs come down over time. Volume of
delinquencies, as the units decline costs will come down. We are also working very hard to make our processes
more efficient.
Over time you would expect, consistent with what we shared over at Investor Day that our normalized expenses
for servicing should be in the $300 million to $350 million range. But that will take a number of years to get to.
On page seven you see our Real Estate Portfolios. Circled net income of $500 million in the quarter, that
compares to a loss of $160 million in the prior year. Revenues down 7% year-on-year. It's the result of the run-off
we have been talking about for a while.
Loan balances are down $24 billion, 11% year-on-year, consistent with our guidance. And we have said that you
can expect a reduction in NII in this portfolio of about $500 million, plus or minus, for the year as we continue to
run-off the WaMu portfolio and our other non-core mortgage assets.
Credit costs you see is a benefit of almost $200 million and that is a function of delinquency trends improving
across all the mortgage asset classes, including Home Equity. You see a circled number of $808 million for the
quarter in net charge-offs, and as I mentioned, that is down 25% year-on-year.
Based on the reduction in delinquencies, which, by the way, is in the appendix on page 16, the resolution of the
foreclosure settlement and what we are seeing is stability in our severity numbers. We reduced our allowance this
quarter by $1 billion. That is, again, part of the significant items on page one.
But I will say, even after that reduction, allowance coverage remains at 6% for the portfolio, $7.7 billion, which is a
very conservative approach to our risks and, quite frankly, the $1 billion release is reflective of what we had to do
as an accounting matter.
I would note one other reporting change here, which is due to the industry-wide regulatory guidance we moved
$1.6 billion of our high-risk seconds into the nonperforming loan category. And that is despite the fact that $1.4
billion of those $1.6 billion are current today.
As you know, we have identified those high-risk seconds early. We put reserves up against them early and so our
reserves remain unaffected. But if you excluded these changes, NPLs would have trended down year-on-year,
down quarter-on-quarter, and the same would be true at the companywide level as you look at the company
statistics.
On page eight, Card Services and Auto, circled net income of $1.2 billion. That is on revenues of $4.7 billion.
Revenues and outstandings are lower year-on-year, that is the impact of runoff. And modestly lower
quarter-on-quarter, and that is primarily due to the seasonal growth that we saw and we tend to see in the fourth
quarter around the holidays.
We did see strong sales volume in Card. As I mentioned, up 12%. But if you exclude the sale of Kohl's, sales
were actually up 15% for the system and the new product sales growth for our Freedom, Sapphire, and Ink
products were actually in excess of that growth rate.
Auto originations also up 21% year-on-year and that, quite frankly, reflects higher industry sales.
Credit costs of $740 million really reflect two factors. Total net charge-offs are $1.5 billion that is down a little
under $900 million year-on-year. We have got lower delinquency and net charge-off rates circled for Card at the
bottom of the page.
We do expect, by the way, the net charge-off rate to be 4.25% plus or minus in the next quarter. I would also note
loss rates in Auto remain very low. We recognized 28 basis points of charge-offs this quarter. As a result of all of
that information, we released $750 million this quarter in Card and, again, reserves here remain very robust even
after that release.
One other comment on Card, expenses were up 6% year-on-year and that really was related to exiting a non-core
product in the business.
Page nine, Commercial Banking. Circled net income of almost $600 million on revenues of $1.7 billion; 25%
return on equity and that is based on a higher capital allocation for this business this year. 9% year-over-year
revenue growth. It has been driven by the themes we have been talking about, growth in loans and liability
balances, and that is offset by the spread compression we have experienced year-on-year.
Page 3 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

It is our seventh consecutive quarter of loan balance growth. You see the circled loan balances of almost $116
billion, up 16%. We had record revenue and record loan balances in our middle-market business for the quarter;
that was up 19%.
C&I loans up 24% year-on-year and I think the best of what we have got in industry data, industry volumes are up
12% year-on-year. So if you think of all that it really does reflect two underlying trends -- growth, we believe, in
terms of demand, as well as a combination of improvements in market share across those product sets.
I will continue to note utilization does remain relatively stable where it has been at a low rate for the last several
quarters. Credit costs were $80 million in the quarter here but net charge-offs were exceedingly low at 4 basis
points.
Page ten, Treasury & Security Services, solid results here. Net income of $350 million, up 11% year-on-year,
40% quarter-on-quarter. Revenues of $2 billion, up 9% year-on-year and that is again resulting from some
underlying fundamental trends that are offsetting that spread compression that we have talked about.
Liability balances are up 34%; international revenue was up 12%; assets under custody are a record $17.9 trillion,
up 8%; and trade finance loan balances are up 40% year-on-year. You will notice there, by the way, we had a
modest decline in trade finance quarter-on-quarter. Really a function of a little bit of seasonality and I would say
an increase return of competition, particularly from some of our European competitors in the fourth -- in the first
quarter.
Page eleven, Asset Management. We had improved quarter-on-quarter results in AM, largely driven by market
conditions, but we are down from what was a strong first quarter 2011. Circled net income of $386 million, that is
on revenues of $2.4 billion.
The results were really driven by some underlying growth as well as the market improvement we saw this last
quarter. It's the 12th consecutive quarter of long-term flows -- $17 billion, $43 billion over the latest 12 months.
We did set records for assets under supervision and records for assets under management. Expenses were up
year-on-year and that has largely been from the investment spending we have been talking about for a number of
quarters.
Page twelve, Corporate and Private Equity. Private Equity net income of $130 million. That is on $250 million of
revenue, predominantly mark-to-market for public positions and some modest realizations this quarter.
So Corporate we recorded a net loss of $700 million and the loss included two significant items. The first is a $2.5
billion addition to our litigation reserves, predominantly mortgage related, and we identified that up on page one.
So I am going to make a couple of comments here on the litigation reserve.
As you know, including the actions this quarter, we have been building very significant reserves. We believe that
currently these reserves are both comprehensive in nature and appropriately conservative, given what we know
about these exposures, including the information in the first quarter of this year.
And I would say, absent a material adverse development that could certainly change our views, we don't
anticipate making material addition to these reserves over the course of the year. But I do want to caution that the
facts and circumstances can change, reserves can go up, they can go down, but we feel based on what we know
today that we are unlikely to add materially to this position.
We did book an addition of $1.1 billion pretax gain that was also identified on page one. That is from the WaMu
bankruptcy settlement. And if you excluded those two items, Corporate net income, excluding PE, we note on the
bottom right was $175 million for the quarter.
Page thirteen, the Fortress balance sheet. I have covered a lot of the topics already but let me just add two
comments to the page.
First, as you know, we authorized a new $15 billion share repurchase. We have spent approximately $450 million
year-to-date on that new authorization, and for those that are likely to ask, it's at a price of about $44.75.
Second, on trust preferred or TRuPS, we have $20 billion outstanding as you all know. We do expect to redeem
$10 billion of that $20 billion in total this year, and that is pursuant to the capital plan that we submitted in the
CCAR process. For much of that, those securities we are going to wait until there is a regulatory call event to call
those. We were in the market for a $400 million call on a single security that didn't require that trigger.
And for the remaining $10 billion currently our view is that is very attractive long-term financing.
Page 4 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

On page 14 we do have the outlook. I think I have covered all of that. And so, before I turn it over to Jamie, I did
want to talk about the topics in the news around CIO and just sort of take a step back and remind our investors
about that activity and performance.
We have more liabilities, $1.1 trillion of deposits than we have loans, approximately $720 billion. And we take that
differential and we invest it, and that portfolio today is approximately $360 billion. We invest those securities in
high grade, low-risk securities.
We have got about $175 billion worth of mortgage securities, we have got government agency securities,
high-grade credit and covered bonds, securitized products, municipals, marketable CDs. The vast majority of
those are government or government-backed and very high grade in nature.
We invest those in order to hedge the interest rate risk of the Firm as a function of that liability and asset
mismatch. We hedge basis risk, we hedge convexity risk, foreign exchange risk is managed through CIO, and
MSR risk. We also do it to generate NII, which we do with that portfolio.
The result of all of that is we also need to manage the stress loss associated with that portfolio, and so we have
put on positions to manage for a significant stress event in Credit. We have had that position on for many years
and the activities that have been reported in the paper are basically part of managing that stress loss position,
which we moderate and change over time depending upon our views as to what the risks are for stress loss from
credit.
All of those decisions are made on a very long-term basis. They are done to keep the Company effectively
balanced from a risk standpoint. We are very comfortable with our positions as they are held today.
And I would add that all those positions are fully transparent to the regulators. They review them, have access to
them at any point in time, get the information on those positions on a regular and recurring basis as part of our
normalized reporting. All of those positions are put on pursuant to the risk management at the Firmwide level.
The last comment that I would make is that based on, we believe, the spirit of the legislation as well as our
reading of the legislation and consistent with this long-term investment philosophy we have in CIO we believe all
of this is consistent with what we believe the ultimate outcome will be related to Volcker.
So with that, maybe, Jamie, I will turn it over to you before we open it up for questions.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Doug, thank you. So let me just -- let
me talk about one thing and then we will open to your questions.
One is the stock buyback. Obviously we got permission to buy back $15 billion worth of stock. We would have
preferred to have been able to buy back substantial amounts below tangible book value, but we were unable to.
We will always, as a discipline, buy back of the approximately $3 billion we issue every year, and that is the $3
billion we issue mostly for comp. And that is not on a GAAP basis. Because we issue before investing, etc.
At 45 we will -- we reserve -- right now we are buying back at that rate, but we may do more. So we reserve the
right at any point in time to do whatever we want and it's based upon basically four things.
What are the organic opportunities? They might be there, portfolios or more organic growth. What are the
investment opportunities? There are a lot of things you can buy, both investments or acquisitions, which we don't
really expect big ones now.
Our own desire to get quickly to... how fast do we want to get to our new capital requirements under Basel III. And
the stock price. So it does not mean at $45 -- obviously if the stock goes up I think we will be consistent and we
will buy less. When it goes down we will buy more.
We are a buyer in size around tangible book value. And then, obviously, we reserve the right to change that at
will.
So let's open up to questions or comments about any subject at all.
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Glenn Schorr, Nomura.
Page 5 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Jamie, just because you brought it up, I think it's interesting. If you took
the midpoint of the range that you outlined in the shareholder letter and you took the $23 billion, $24 billion of
over-the-cycle earnings, that is a 7 times multiple. It seems very attractive at the midpoint of the range.
I am just curious on how you think through the valuation when you are thinking about the use proceeds on the
buyback.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, I mean, look, you said it yourself, anyone can do the numbers. Our tangible book value is
extremely attractive, at $40 it would probably be attractive and at $45 --I am not saying it's not attractive, but our
best thing is to grow our business and not to worry about buying back the stock.
We are going to buy back the stock when it's a bargain, not just because we feel like it. And so you guys can all
do the numbers, we are just not going to tell you what we are going to do.
GLENN SCHORR: All right, fair enough. If you look on the quarter for year-on-year basis, expenses were up like
15%. Now there is litigation costs in there and things like that. I think on the Investor Day you had suggested flat
expenses year-on-year. Obviously it depends on Investment Bank revenues, but can you just talk about the
revenue expense dynamic?
JAMIE DIMON: We said flat expenses; we still expect that. The first quarter is a little bit higher because of FICA
and payroll, a whole bunch of things like that, and some one-off expenses that run through there. And that is flat if
you back out IB comp and extraordinary stuff.
That number should be about $12 billion a quarter. Obviously it was a little bit higher this quarter if you do that,
but it will come down over time we think.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay, so it is still flat --.
JAMIE DIMON: Remember, it's flat but we are still doing a lot of investing. So we are getting other efficiencies to
help pay for the investing.
GLENN SCHORR: Fair enough. And then maybe last one for me. I think the fear around issues in Europe has
started to subside post the LTRO, and I think we discussed that last call. We got a little bit of a scare, in the last
week or two with Spain.
Just curious on your thoughts right now; where are we in that process and do you still feel comfortable on the
counterparty exposures?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I constantly read about counterparties. Our numbers -- we disclosed around $15 billion, a
little bit higher than that now. They obviously move around.
I would still say exactly the same thing. The LTRO was a massive thing that took the real catastrophe in the short
run-off the table, but obviously the world is going to evaluate over time whether the fiscal union is tightened and
given teeth and carrots and sticks and all that. It's going to look at Spain and Italy's both austerity and growth
plans, and it's going to be like an accordion for the next 18 months. So I personally am not going to overreact to
that.
But I think they have to do some things to give it the real stability. The LTRO wasn't sufficient. It was not a... it was
a short-term fix not a permanent fix.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay, I appreciate it. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Bank of America.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. On the CIO question, which obviously
you have addressed and has gotten so much attention in the press this week, can I just ask one further question,
which is, are all of the results of the CIO group reflected only within Corporate and Other? There is no sharing of
any of those results with, say, FICC in terms of the reporting that we would see in the Investment Bank?
JAMIE DIMON: No, God, no. No, no. A lot of the NII is given to the businesses that generate the deposits on a
consistent fund transfer methodology, which -- but not in the Investment Bank. Remember, most of that portfolio
is an AFS portfolio, not all of it, but most of it.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Right, fair enough. It's just I (multiple speakers)
Page 6 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: We disclosed both realized gains, unrealized gains, and mark-to-market gains. You get all of that.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Yes, that is just a question that I ask in order to sort of assess the tempest in the teapot
nature of the stories relative to the revenues that we see that just don't seem to be that big.
JAMIE DIMON: It's a complete tempest in a teapot. Every bank has a major portfolio; in those portfolios you make
investments that you think are wise to offset your exposures.
Obviously, it's a big portfolio; we are a large company and we try to run it -- it's sophisticated obviously with
complex things. But at the end of the day that is our job is to invest that portfolio wisely, intelligently over a long
period of time to earn income and to offset other exposures that we have.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Then turning to the capital questions, obviously you have had a rapid growth towards your
eventual Basel III targets, although of course we still don't know exactly what they are, and you have alluded to
the conditions under which you would return capital through buybacks. What about the potential for special
dividends along the way? If you felt that you had excess capital and that share buybacks were not that attractive,
how would you think about that?
JAMIE DIMON: Guy, I think the right way to look at that is ask that question in two years. I mean we are not at the
Basel III targets yet. You should expect dividends on a regular -- we may change our minds, but on a regular
annual basis from us that will look at what to do.
Obviously, this is a Board-level decision. But there is going to certainly be no special dividend before we know
what the real capital rules are.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Fair enough.
JAMIE DIMON: Take that off the table.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, that is completely fair. Mortgage origination you alluded to better spreads obviously
and maybe you could just give us a little bit more color of how that came through. Because it certainly does look
like they improved meaningfully given how the revenue evolved versus last quarter versus the origination
volumes.
JAMIE DIMON: They were several hundred million dollars higher than what we would call normal for a whole
bunch of different reasons, including HARP, supply/demand, the price at which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are
securitizing things. So I would expect that to normalize over time.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, then the last one for me is a related one which is looking at the mortgage apps that
you received during the quarter, which would presumably tell us something about originations out a quarter or so,
that is up very, very strongly. Factoring in the HARP and everything else, is that a pretty good indicator that we
should expect origination revenues to improve at least in the quarter or so ahead? Or should we discount that in
some way?
JAMIE DIMON: It's a measure of what you're going to get next quarter on revenues, but not -- on the volumes but
not necessarily on the spreads.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, that's all helpful. I appreciate you taking my questions.
OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Questions on trading. Equity trading revenue seemed
better than expected and better than industry cash volume. Any color on what helped you guys there? Was equity
derivatives particularly strong, or any other color?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: They were a little bit stronger, yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: And then could you give us some sense of how trading revenues trended month-to-month
during the first quarter? And maybe -- it's early, but how things are so far in April?
JAMIE DIMON: We're not going to go through month-by-month numbers. I would say so far -- it was 10 days; it's
going to be 60 plus days this quarter. And 10 days is a little bit lower than we saw in the first quarter. In my
opinion, it does not reflect the next 50 days, though Doug mentioned there's usually been regular seasonality in
the business, not just for us but for everybody. So whether that continues or not, who knows.
Page 7 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, just following up on Glenn's expense question. So kind of ex the IB comp and special
items, you're shooting for flattish this year. And is that in like the $48 billion ballpark for the year?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes. It was a little bit -- I think it was 49 -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It was $49 billion and change -JAMIE DIMON: And we are a little over that.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: -- John, and we're a little over on a run rate basis. Flat, actually, quarter-on-quarter, but a
little over it on a run rate basis.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, so you are shooting for $48 billion, $49 billion, for the year, in that ballpark ex all of the
other stuff?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Right. And that would include -- that includes all the investment spend as Jamie
mentioned.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And is comp to revenue of 35% this quarter, is that a decent guide to the year, do you
think?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, give or take.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And can you give us any color on why the litigation reserve build is so big? Was some
of that the AG foreclosure settlement that just happened this quarter or would that be separate?
JAMIE DIMON: No, it was the completion of a thorough review of all the reps and warranty, all the litigation, all
the tranches, all the Bear Stearns, etc., etc., but with a real view about all that. That is all.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then could you just remind us, or can you say what this WaMu bankruptcy
settlement action was?
JAMIE DIMON: It's just the final settlement, some taxes and pensions and certain assets and stuff like that. It has
been in the works, you know, for three years. It's just we didn't account for it until it was all finalized.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. That is not related to the FDIC suit about who is on that hook for the putbacks?
JAMIE DIMON: No, no.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then is the net interest income and margin trend from this quarter that is
consistent, Doug, with your expectations for the year?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, I would say we are going to continue to see pressure. I wouldn't say, John, for the
year, but certainly for the next quarter and then we will see where the world goes.
Part of it is a little bit we have the opportunity to buy back some TruPS. That may help improve some of the
trends and we are not quite sure when that is going to hit.
JAMIE DIMON: And part of it is discretionary, like how we invest in long-term funds over time. And we have been
fairly conservative in that.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So you are sitting on excess cash that you are kind of waiting for a better environment
to invest?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Part of the reason NIM was down quarter-on-quarter is we were -- we were a little more
conservative in the opportunities with that excess cash.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And if you did the $10 billion of TruPS that you are planning, there might be some NIM
or net interest income benefits, Doug, that you have not put into your guidance?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That is right.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

Page 8 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Well, we didn't -- all I am saying is we are going to have pressure. The only thing I would
say is we will see some continued pressure on NIM for the second quarter.
JOHN MCDONALD: You talked about that in terms of spread compression and run-off, and you just haven't
incorporated any impact from what you might do on TruPS yet.
JAMIE DIMON: No, it is incorporated into everything we talk about.
JOHN MCDONALD: It is? Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes. But, look, the important thing is that when we talk about this portfolio one of the bigger
decisions you make, if you look at our portfolio -- and we disclosed we would benefit from rising rates. A lot of that
comes out of CIO.
It costs money to be there, but we think it's a conservative and proper way to run the Company because we worry
about, you know, the fat tails, much higher rates not much lower rates. So we can change that and increase NIM
tomorrow if we wanted to.
JOHN MCDONALD: If we started to see the 10-year go up consistently without Fed funds moving up, would that
be something you could take advantage of? And when you say rates going up, Jamie, is it really (multiple
speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but we would have to feel at that point in time that we want to do it. And there are other ways
to do it. You can buy spread products, not just fixed rate products.
JOHN MCDONALD: And then, more fundamentally, there is a benefit from just kind of the shorter Fed Funds
going up eventually?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, and we have told you all about that. That you would see in TSS a couple hundred million, in
-DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: CB.
JAMIE DIMON: In CB the same and a little bit in Consumer Banking.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I would say, John, from a position standpoint, very consistent with where we were at
Investor Day. 100 basis points rides in the curve; we generate a couple billion dollars of incremental NII.
JAMIE DIMON: All things being equal, which they are not.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: They are not, right.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Couple follow-ups, one is on the special dividend question
that was asked earlier. I guess the reason why -- what I am wondering is if you were -- if you decided not to do
your approved buyback this year based on what the stock is doing, then why wouldn't you do a special dividend
this year to absorb what you were approved for in buybacks?
JAMIE DIMON: I guess, Betsy, we don't know all the final capital rules. So if we were going to buy back the stock
my preference would be get to whatever the rules are sooner rather than later, that is all.
It's not that you lost the money, you can -- I always call that kind of earnings in store. You can redeploy your
capital later. If after we know all the rules and we have an excess capital and that is the best thing to do for
shareholders, obviously the Board will consider that.
We are not going to consider it before we get to whatever the known capital rules are. And we are going to know
a lot more, remember - but hopefully by the end of this year.
BETSY GRASECK: I am hearing from Basel III it's supposed to be out shortly, but I guess the question then is,
well, why are you (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: Betsy, we are not going to do it before we get to our capital rules. We don't know what they are.
Page 9 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

BETSY GRASECK: Yes, okay. So I guess -- but the basic question I have is you have an expectation for what
your capital is going to end up being at a year-end?
JAMIE DIMON: But we don't know. Our expectation is 9.5% Basel III, but we don't know all the RWA rules, we
don't know how it's going to come out, and we are not even sure about the 9.5%.
BETSY GRASECK: So I suppose the question then is why are you more comfortable doing buyback than special
dividend?
JAMIE DIMON: Buybacks, at the right price, are enormously valuable for shareholders and just paying out extra
cash is not.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then on -- just a couple questions on housing.
So obviously from your letter housing is much better, green lights flashing. I just wanted to understand how that
comports with what was presented at Analyst Day, Investor Day when you talked about how estimated OREO
and foreclosure projections were actually moving up in the near-term as, you know, you are getting the pig
through the python. But given your letter, I kind of wondered, well, is your Investor Day (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: No, no, we didn't say they were moving up. What we said is that they might move up temporarily
as some of them get freed up. But if you look at total delinquent -- seriously delinquent loans and total
foreclosures from a year ago to today, to the end of this year, they are going to come down.
Obviously they are kind of very lumpy as every bank goes around its own different thing, but homes for sale are
down, inventory is down, delinquent loans are coming down, charge-offs are coming down, real money is coming
in. So we are just saying we pretty much are at the bottom.
I don't know the lumpiness by month or by quarter, but we are pretty much at the bottom here, as long as you
have a recovery. Now if the United States goes back in a recession all bets are off.
BETSY GRASECK: Sure.
JAMIE DIMON: You have got the 4 million new jobs, household formation will probably go up; that is all I am
saying. It's not -BETSY GRASECK: (multiple speakers) might be a little too conservative.
JAMIE DIMON: What slide?
BETSY GRASECK: Just on where you showed temporary increase in trajectories for OREO and foreclosures.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but I think we mentioned the catch-up now with the AG foreclosure.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Betsy, I think that was all around the foreclosure settlement and just being able to work
some of the delays through the system. That is it. It wasn't talking about the underlying fundamentals.
BETSY GRASECK: Sure, got it. And then last is it just the high-risk seconds that you outlined, the regulatory
requirement to put them in as a non-performer even though 88% are current. You said you had reserves against
it. Could you just help us understand how those reserves -- how you set those reserves off?
JAMIE DIMON: So I think we fully disclosed this about two years ago that we had identified a long time ago that
when -- we were surprised to find out, by the way, that a lot of seconds were still paying when the first no longer
was. But when we analyzed it it was pretty obvious it was just a timing difference that in almost all cases the first
went delinquent, the second eventually went delinquent. And in all cases when the first went into foreclosure the
second was a loss, basically a total loss.
So we just recognized that in reserving years ago, that is all. We specifically reserved for specifically that thing, so
moving it from performing to nonperforming didn't affect our reserves. That is -BETSY GRASECK: Yes. Okay, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: And it was $1.6 billion.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: $1.6 billion in total.
Page 10 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: There are other little pockets like that we have too, by the way.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We actually identified -- that group was a $4 billion number for us, of which the regulators
asked us to move $1.6 billion. So we have reserves for a broader pool than just that moved pool.
BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.
BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: So you guys booked actually a pretty small gain in your private equity
holdings, which seemed kind of conservative given the pretty significant price rise we saw in equity markets.
Could you comment maybe about that and is that just a conservative market we should assume?
JAMIE DIMON: We are always conservative in that.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. And then on refi, anecdotally it seemed like there was a lot of expectation about
HARP 2.0 moving a good deal of refi activity, but we haven't really seen that in the Fannie and Freddie's MBS at
this stage. And we also didn't see a big increase in JPM's volumes either.
Is the expectation that that is going to kick in in a big way in the back end of the year? When you are taking a look
at the pipeline, how many months does it take for that to move through the -- through your production?
JAMIE DIMON: I guess, let me just put it this way, it is more than we thought. It's picking up a little bit, but I don't
think it's going to completely change everything. You were seeing refis anyway and this just opens up a bigger
universe to be refi'd.
Other than that that we just couldn't give you the numbers offhand. We might have to get back to you on that.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. And then I guess last one on regulation. It feels as though the environment is getting
more constructive there, dialogues are improving. Could you maybe give some color around that? Is that your
perspective as well?
Is it making it a little easier to start to plan your business going forward?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, I do think it's getting a little bit better and I do think that a lot of these things resolved during
the course of this year, so hopefully that will be true. It's really a complex environment; we have got a lot of things
to do to meet all the regulatory requirements, but I do think it's getting a little better.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: My questions really relate to the impact of lower interest rates. I guess the first
would be, branches -- the number of branches are up 5% since a year ago, but revenues and RFS are down 4%.
JAMIE DIMON: Right.
MIKE MAYO: So I know we talked about this at Investor Day, but still the same plans to increase the branches?
What metric should we look at from the outside to monitor that progress?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, I pointed out at Investor Day that branches make about $1 million a branch. We have just
adjusted the bill to make up for changes from Durbin and other things like that, but we are losing in total, I think
we disclosed like $500 million a year in NIM.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, $500 million, yes.
JAMIE DIMON: We are running the Company such that we expect to get that back. So we are not going to make
short-term decisions about branch builds because of short-term spread compression. We think the value is there
and we are doing it, we are just are adjusting the branch build.
And so what you are seeing is almost exactly what we told you. Durbin is $150 million a quarter, NIM is down by
(multiple speakers)
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It will be $400 million year-over-year and you see the margins in that business decline by
20 bps as a result of that this quarter.
Page 11 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE MAYO: And then more generally, you mentioned that NII could see some additional pressure. What would
be the biggest source of ongoing margin pressure as it relates to low rates?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Well, we have identified NII from the portfolio run-off, Mike, so that is another -- that is a
$500 million number. And as we go through quarter-on-quarter now, you have got spread compression impact in
TSS and in CB somewhat leveling off over time. But you will continue to see a little bit of that, but it will level off as
we normalize in a rate environment we have had low for long.
MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, why don't we have bigger loan growth? It looks like you are -- you mentioned you
had record Middle Market loan balances but still wholesale loan growth versus the fourth quarter increased at the
slowest pace since six quarters ago. So if we have, for good borrowers, the most benign rate environment in our
lifetime, why wouldn't we see more loan growth in aggregate?
JAMIE DIMON: You got to be -- the issue is that -- in our Wholesale you got really two big books. You have got
the Commercial Bank, which was up substantially -- if I were you that is the one I would look at.
You have the Investment Bank, but that one moves around dramatically as big companies borrow, pay it off. You
got a bridge one that goes in and out, a conduit loan that goes in and out. So I wouldn't look at that one the same
way. That just can go -- that can move dramatically quarter by quarter. What we saw -- if you look at the
Investment Bank, a lot of debt issuance. Usually when you have huge debt issuance sometimes your bank loans
go down.
MIKE MAYO: So just one overview insight. It seems like traditional banking isn't doing so great; NII down, margin
down, loans were flat for the quarter, utilization hasn't changed. On the other hand, capital markets are doing
great -- phenomenal issuance, great trading.
Is there some insight you can give us into the industry? I mean, we have lower rates. It's not necessarily fueling
traditional banking. On the other hand, capital markets are doing well. Is this just exaggerated disintermediation or
how would you describe the current environment?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike, we have had eight straight quarters of Middle Market and C&I loan growth in the
Commercial Bank. We have had probably four or five or six of straight quarters of small business loans going up.
So if you are looking at the commercial world that is what I would look at.
In the commercial -- in the consumer bank we have had consistent growth in deposits and we have a NIM going
down a little bit because of the interest rate environment. But the underlying deposits, clients, flows is actually
pretty good.
And credit card spend is good and debit card spend is good, but you have NIM compression. We can go over it a
1,000 times; we are going to have NIM compression. Think of that as like the cost of mozzarella for pizza, when it
goes up your margins go down a little bit. It doesn't mean you are selling less pizza.
MIKE MAYO: All right, thanks a lot.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay, that was a dumb analogy. Tasty, but --.
OPERATOR: Matthew O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Two things jumped out to me from a big
picture point of view. The comp ratio at the Investment Bank was, as you mentioned, lower than a year ago, 35%
versus 40%. The pace of reserve release in the credit book also accelerated quite a bit.
I guess just from the high level point of view you tend to be very conservative when you can be, especially in the
beginning of the year. So as we think about each of those two buckets, which I realize are completely separate,
but as we think about the comp ratio in the Investment Bank, what is it within the businesses that you are trying to
change or think that will be different than they have been in the past where you have kind of erred on the side of
being a little more conservative early on in the year?
JAMIE DIMON: Nothing. Remember there is a lot of things that go in the comp ratio of the Bank, but I think the
best way to think about it is 35%, give or take. We have always said 35 to 40%, but a lot of things affect that and
that is the way we book it. Nothing has changed.
And the reserve takedowns were in mortgages and credit card and they are required. The accountants look at a
whole bunch of numbers; they make you take it down. So we had to take it down.
Page 12 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

We don't expect -- I think it's important we don't expect big take -- reduction reserves in Credit Card anymore.
Mortgage over time will have to come down as the book gets smaller and charge-offs come down.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And on the mortgage reserve release, I think this was the first quarter that you had
significant reserve release in the RFS. As you think about the pace going forward, based on what you see right
now, would you expect something similar?
JAMIE DIMON: Maybe, we don't really know. We have got to see what happens to charge-offs over time.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And then just coming back to the Investment Bank comp, as we think about the
businesses there. There has been a lot of talk about trying to manage down the comp ratio within FICC. Is that
something that is driving the ratio or is it just a different (multiple speakers)?
JAMIE DIMON: You are barking up the wrong tree. If you want to model, your model should be 37.5 and just
leave it there. We have consistently for years charged capital to businesses, looked at risk-adjusted returns,
multiple year returns, and all the things like that so our basic methodology is not going to change.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, I guess I am just (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: You may see at the percentage payout come back. We were already at the low end relative to
competition.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Yes, I guess I was less concerned about the specific number and more just thematically.
When I was in there, I guess an early February meeting with Jes and some of the other people that I have talked
with, it seems like there is just a lot of effort to try and get the FICC comp ratio down. And I was just wondering if
that (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: I think there are reasons that the comp ratio is going to come down, but -- and I know Jes has
spoken about it, so I do think there are pressures that will bring it down which are more related to competitive
pressures than just that number.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Most of my questions have been answered, but just one quickly. On
FICC trading and the strength there, you talked about the Rates business. But is there any way to put color
around how much of the strength in Fixed Income trading was sort of volume related and how much was basically
more market-oriented based on just gains, mark-to-market gains on sale in the inventory through the quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, you know, it is but we had very good volumes. And you are absolutely correct, volumes drive
it, spreads drive it, and kind of your positioning drives it a little bit. But volumes will be probably the primary driver.
Obviously we want to do a good job positioning the inventory too.
ED NAJARIAN: I think the fear is -- obviously the first quarter is usually seasonally strong. The fear is, you know,
not just that you maybe get a little bit of drop off in volume after the first quarter, but that some of the strength
came -- and obviously we can't measure it from the outside looking in -- but some of the strength came from just
the fact that debt spreads in almost every asset class were tightened so much throughout the quarter.
Is there any way to think about that as we try to think about where trading could go for the next several quarters?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, all things being equal, when that happens it will be a benefit to your trading results. If it goes
the other way, it's usually a negative. It's not necessarily that way, because you can position for it.
So if I were you, you could look at volume, spreads, and you can make your own estimate, but every company
takes different positions and tries to protect themselves from that. But all things being equal that is a backwind for
trading, yes.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. But no way to sort of give us any sense of how much of a backwind that was in the first --?
JAMIE DIMON: It was a little bit of a benefit this quarter but it would be a mistake to start to break that out,
because you don't have to be positioned that way. That is why it's a mistake to break it out that way.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. All right, thank you.
Page 13 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, I wanted to come back for a moment to the
delinquent mortgage servicing cost issue. It just -- looking at industry statistics, the number of homes in
delinquency have almost dropped by half since early 2010, but the number of homes in foreclosure has stayed
flat at like about 2.1 million and ever since then hasn't budged. And it seems to be the number of homes in
foreclosure that drives the expense levels.
I am wondering does the AG settlement kind of give you an ability to break the logjam a bit and to accelerate the
process? And/or when should we start seeing the decreased delinquencies translate into decreased foreclosure
and foreclosure-related expense?
JAMIE DIMON: I think we have told that you should start seeing it like every quarter for the next eight quarters. It
will be a little lumpy, but my guess is eight quarters from now it will be a lot less than it is today.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. All right. Thank you, I am good then.
OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.
ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Just wanted to circle back on the margin
commentary and NII. I think you had mentioned that perhaps in 2Q there could still be some pressure, but we
shouldn't really read into that in terms of pressure throughout the year.
Just wanted to tie that back to the full-year commentary about the real estate run-off drag of I think $500 million
year-over-year, as well as the Consumer Business Banking drag of I think you still think about $400 million. How
do we think about it in terms of potentially when there would be an inflection point?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Andrew, I would say think about it 5 to 10 basis points for the next quarter. It will moderate
a little bit going forward, and then it's going to be a function of, as Jamie said, our positioning and a function a little
bit of what the financing market looks like in general. But near term that is a good indication, and that incorporates
all of the run-off, all the margin pressure, and a variety of pluses and minuses.
JAMIE DIMON: It's hard to speak about this in a consolidated thing. Probably for the most part in TS we see it,
you see it in Commercial Bank it's going to be more to pricing pressure than it is to margin pressure and loans.
And if you see it -as Doug said is probably mostly in the consumer banks.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Consumer bank, correct.
JAMIE DIMON: But each business is a little different.
ANDREW MARQUARDT: That is helpful. Then any sense of when the real estate drag kind of starts to slow
down? When can we see an inflection in terms of C&I and Business Banking maybe growth offsetting that drag?
Is it by the end of the year or do we have to wait till next year?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: The drag isn't going to slow down; it's going to go on for years. And, Andrew, remember I
put that chart up at Investor Day. We are releasing capital with that as well.
So the fact of the matter is as that slows down it does hurt NII. It goes on and hurts NII, but it's releasing capital
along the way.
JAMIE DIMON: I forgot what it was last year, but it was 600 last year, it's quick to be a 500 this year, it's going to
be 350 the year after that, it's going to be 250 -- it's just going to come down over time as the portfolio runs off.
ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it, that is helpful. And then just one last ticky-tack question. In IB you talked about
the DVA loss of $900 million plus, but there was also a CVA gain this quarter. How much was that?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It was about $175 million. We manage that number, as you know.
ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

Page 14 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: A couple of follow-ups, one on FICC. Did you see any
evidence of market share gains as some of the Europeans have decided to pull back there, or was it more kind of
a broad based business improvement in the FICC line?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think we saw any real material market share gains here... in Europe.
JIM MITCHELL: Okay, so you really haven't seen that yet. On the HELOCs, the $1.6 billion that you added to
NPAs, is that representative of all of the HELOCs that are behind delinquent first? Is that like 100% of those or is
it just part of the ones that might be behind delinquent firsts?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It's a part.
JIM MITCHELL: Just a part, okay. So we don't really have the number on the pig picture?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Again, no. We identified (multiple speakers) we identified -- we have $4 billion that are part
of that portfolio, of which $1.6 billion had to move. We have reserved, as Jamie talked about, across the whole $4
billion of the portfolio. Each of -- there are different characteristics within that.
JAMIE DIMON: But why did this $1.6 billion move and not the other $2.4 billion?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Because it fit the specific guidelines of LTV that the regulators asked for.
JAMIE DIMON: The other stuff has a better LTV make up than that $1.6 million.
JIM MITCHELL: Okay. Got you, thank you. And one last question on the margin.
The one thing that was a little strange was that the long-term debt cost jumped pretty material, about 56 basis
points sequentially. Was that related to -- was there something about last quarter where you had some debt gains
that kind of skewed that, or why would the long-term debt numbers be going up so materially?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It was --.
JAMIE DIMON: You got it.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, you got it exactly right.
JIM MITCHELL: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.
OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC Capital Markets. Mr. Cassidy, your line is open. Please go ahead.
JAMIE DIMON: Operator, you can go to the next one.
OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.
PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR: Hey, Jamie, just change the comp the discussion at a little bit. We are hearing
out there for loan growth, people that are getting loan growth that there is a lot of price competition and
underwriting competition, especially in the commercial markets. And a lot of people bring up your name as being
one of the most competitive out there for pricing.
I was just wondering if you could add some color to that, and are you taking outsize interest rate risk growing your
portfolio?
JAMIE DIMON: Two separate things. First of all, there is competition in pricing. I am surprised to hear it's us, but I
have heard that before. We went and checked and we see no evidence of that. Obviously, we don't want to drive
the market like that.
It has got nothing to do with interest rate exposure. We don't look at -- we have sort of match fund loans the way
we look at loans. We don't say, okay, we will take the interest rate exposure and pass it on to the client.
PAUL MILLER: So you hedged -- so you are just saying you are hedging most of those -- if you are doing fixed
rate at five or seven years, you are hedging all that out?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.

Page 15 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

PAUL MILLER: And then you are saying you are surprised to hear that your name is mentioned a lot, but
especially out West your name comes up a lot. And (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: But, Paul, that is because we are a new competitor out West so obviously we are competing out
West to gain share. Everything we do out West -- remember we didn't have a big Middle Market operation out
West, so everything we are doing is taking share from someone. As opposed to like you would go to the Midwest
where it's a lot more renewals than it is new business. So I understand why you hear that out West.
PAUL MILLER: And what about underwriting standards? We are hearing that that has been -- also been
cheapened.
JAMIE DIMON: Absolutely not. It may be cheapened for the industry, but it has nothing to do with us.
PAUL MILLER: Okay. And then one quick follow-up on the expenses related to servicing. With the servicing -and you have taken some write-downs on servicing already related to higher costs, but is that AG settlement,
does that materially increase servicing costs or has that already been factored into your valuations?
JAMIE DIMON: We reserved a bunch of that stuff in prior quarters. It cost us $200 million in this quarter and most
of the rest is incorporated in loan-loss reserves and it's already in our higher servicing costs. We have already
been running to the Consent Orders and things like that, so it's not like -- it's not going to add additional servicing
costs.
We also, as you point out, recognize some of it in the MSR already. (multiple speakers) MSR relating to some of
that.
PAUL MILLER: Yes, I know you have done that in the past. Jamie, thank you very much.
JAMIE DIMON: You are welcome.
OPERATOR: Christopher Wheeler, Mediobanca.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER, ANALYST, MEDIOBANCA: Two questions on capital, if I may. The first one really is
on the Basel III RWA. I make you don't disclose them, but perhaps you could give some indication as to the
extent to which you have mitigated those, either passively or actively, during the first quarter? So that is the
second one -- or the first one, rather.
And the second one really is obviously your enthusiasm for getting to your Basel III ratio, I think you said getting
the yoke off your shoulders at the Investor Day, sooner than later has pretty well been taken up by nearly all your
competitors, apart from one very large one in Frankfurt, which seems intent on moving fully to 2019 and is
obviously sitting on a considerably higher leverage ratio than your good selves.
Do you think that you and your peers who are taking this regulatory high load and putting yourself at a competitive
disadvantage to this really powerful player, or do you think that the regulatory pressures will start to actually bring
you together much more quickly than perhaps they might envisage?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, I don't think it does that at all. I think we all compete in the marketplace and I don't think
that your capital ratios change your competition necessarily in the marketplace. We are all waiting for more
guidance from the regulators, not like there is a total competition for capital.
Then the RWA mitigation -- it's two pieces, okay. It's really -- one piece is simply the run-off of stuff which is going
to go away.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: Sure.
JAMIE DIMON: That is happening every quarter. We have already talked about the consumer portfolio running
off. There are a couple of things in the IB running off, there are a couple of things -- and the second is just the
normal adoption of modeling capabilities that could be used in B III. That is all. That were not being used before
because you didn't need to.
It's those two things and they are rolling in over time.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: Okay, thanks very much.
OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time. Are there any closing comments?
Page 16 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I don't think so. Folks, thank you for spending some time with us and we will talk to you soon.
OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020120427e84d000rt

Page 17 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

