Q1 2018 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
8,552 words
13 April 2018
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
© 2018 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's First Quarter 2018 Earnings
Call. This call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms.
Lake, please go ahead.
MARIANNE LAKE, EXECUTIVE VP & CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, operator, and good
morning, everyone. Just to let you know that Jamie is actually on the road with clients today, so he's not able to
join us this morning, but sends his regards.
So now, I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation, which is available on our website. Please refer
to the disclaimer at the back of the presentation.
Starting on Page 1. The firm reported net income of $8.7 billion, EPS of $2.37 and a return on tangible common
equity of 19% on revenue of $28.5 billion benefiting from broad-based strength and performance, but also lower
taxes and seasonality.
To put this quarter's performance in its context, on a core basis, pretax earnings grew $0.13 year-on-year,
benefiting from higher rates, solid growth across other revenue drivers and continued investments in our
businesses. And even excluding the benefit of tax reforms, net income was a clear record this quarter.
Included in the results you see on the page approximately $500 million of mark-to-market gains on certain
investments previously held at cost due to the adoption of a new accounting standard. These gains are reported
in CIB Markets revenue.
Against that, there were a number of other smaller, but nevertheless notable items, including changes in credit
reserves, FDA, investment securities and private equity losses and legal, which, together, substantially offset
those gains.
Underlying results continued to be strong. Average core loan growth excluding the CIB of 8% year-on-year, Card
sales and Merchant processing volumes, up 12% and 15%, respectively. We maintained our #1 rank in Global IB
fees and had net income of $1 billion in the Commercial Bank.
And in Asset & Wealth Management, we saw strong long-term flows across all regions and 10% AUM growth.
Turning to Page 2, some more details about the first quarter results. So before we get into the numbers and the
performance drivers for the quarter, I do want to remind you that there have been a couple of adjustments to the
numbers on the page, which are in line with the guidance that we gave during the fourth quarter.
First being the impact of the new revenue recognition standard. You will recall this will have a full year impact of
grossing up noninterest revenue and expense, each by approximately $1.2 billion. The impact for the quarter of
about $300 million is included here and prior periods have been similarly restated.

Page 1 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Second, as a result of tax reform, certain tax equivalent adjustments that are included in managed revenue are
lower on a relative basis, and for that, prior periods have not been restated. This impact, which was also about
$300 million for the quarter, reduced revenues, was split about 50-50 in NII versus NIR and offset in tax expense.
So with that, revenue of $28.5 billion was up $2.7 billion or 10% year-on-year. Net interest income was up $1.1
billion, mainly reflecting the impact of higher rates. Noninterest revenue was up $1.6 billion year-on-year, and
while it includes the mark-to-market gains on the first page, it also includes approximately of $400 million of
losses on investment securities and legacy private equity investments.
Adjusted expense of $16 billion was up 6% year-on-year, reflecting higher compensation expense as well as
business growth including auto lease depreciation.
Credit costs of $1.2 billion were down $150 million year-on-year. Consumer charge-offs were in line with
expectations and guidance and there were no changes to reserves this quarter.
In Wholesale, we had a net reserve release of about $170 million driven by a single Oil & Gas name.
You'll see that our effective tax rate for the quarter ended a little above 18% compared to the 17% guidance we
gave, driven by a combination of higher pretax earnings as well as geographical mix, reflecting full year effective
tax rate to be close to 20%.
Shifting to balance sheet and capital on Page 3. We ended the first quarter with CET1 of 11.8%, down about 30
basis points versus last quarter. Capital generated was offset by net capital distribution and changes in AOCI, so
the reduction was driven by higher risk-weighted assets reflecting the increased level of market activity, which
similarly impacted all other ratios.
In the quarter, the firm distributed $6.7 billion of capital to shareholders, and last week, we submitted our 2018
CCAR capital plan to the Federal Reserve, but as you know, we can't provide any details of that at this stage.
So before moving onto the lines of business on Page 4, I'll briefly address this week's new capital news. Two new
capital NPRs were released this week, the stress capital buffer and eSLR.
Starting with the stress capital buffer, the proposal was broadly in line with the narrative and expectations that had
been set. There's a comment period. We intend to fully participate in the process and are encouraged that there is
an openness from current leadership to really consider feedback from the industry. On the positive side, we
support the conversion of stress and BAU capital, and in general, support simplification of the framework. We
agree that firms should be required to hold adequate capital to withstand severe stress calibrated to firms' specific
exposures and risks. We also agree that many of the changes to the construct of the test, for example, not having
to hold capital for full distributions during a stressed environment, that can reflect reality and board-approved
policies.
That said, stepping right back, if we are fundamentally reconsidering the construct of minimum capital levels, then
all of the building blocks should be in play, including the GSIB surcharge, to ensure they all hang together. And to
reinforce points that we've previously made, first and foremost, the fixed coefficients need to be recalibrated in
light of the economic growth we've had.
Second, the underlying premise for the surcharge and, more particularly, U.S. gold-plating is somewhat
unnecessary for a firm that is compliant with all of the post-crisis reform that directly addresses systemic risks,
which includes the severity of the CCAR stress, incorporating material GSIB specific instructions.
Beyond that, obvious challenges with the current proposal include the significant volatility and the opacity in the
Fed's results as well as challenges around implementation.
So getting to the numbers. You can see on the page our estimated historical stress capital buffer derived from the
Fed's results. As well, for 2017, it would imply no impact on our minimum capital levels. You can see that in years
prior, the buffer would have been higher. And you know that in 2018, the scenario was, in many ways, more
severe and the lower tax rate has a net negative bias. Further, there will potentially be a need for larger
management buffers if it is necessary to accommodate significant volatility.
So acknowledging everything that we don't know, it's fair to say that our minimum level of capital including a
management buffer would likely be higher under this proposal, but likely still in the range of 11% to 12%.

Page 2 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Briefly on eSLR. As you know, we are not currently bound by leverage, and prima facie, this proposal would
reduce the eSLR minimum. So my primary comment on this is to reiterate my earlier comments about the need to
be willing to re-examine the GSIB surcharge regardless of the fact that it reduces the number.
Overall, we've been waiting for these proposals and we look forward to participating in the comment process.
Moving to Page 5 and let's start with Consumer & Community Banking. CCB generated $3.3 billion of net income
and an ROE of 25%. Core loans are up 8% year-on-year driven by Home Lending, up 13%; Business Banking, up
7%; Cards, up 5%; and auto loans and leases, up 6%.
Deposits grew solidly at 6% year-on-year. We believe we continue to outpace the industry, which, as we
previously noted, is experiencing a slowdown as consumers are increasing their allocations to investments, but
also, based upon our data, they appear to be spending more reflecting a continued high level of confidence.
Client investment assets were up 13% year-on-year with half of the growth from net new money flows and with
record flows this quarter. And active mobile users were up double digits.
Revenue of $12.6 billion was up 15% year-on-year. Consumer & Business Banking revenue was up 17% on
higher NII, driven by continued margin expansion and deposit growth. Home Lending revenue was roughly flat as
portfolio loan spread and production margin compression were predominantly offset by higher net servicing
revenue.
And Cards, Merchant Services & Auto revenue was up 18%, including higher auto lease income, but it was driven
by Card on lower net acquisition costs, higher loan balances as well as margin expansion. The Card revenue rate
was 11.6% in the quarter.
Expense of $6.9 billion was up 8% year-on-year, driven by investments in technology and marketing, higher auto
lease depreciation and continued underlying business growth. The overhead ratio of 55% was roughly flat
quarter-on-quarter despite seasonally higher payroll taxes and higher marketing expenses.
Finally, on credit. The trends across our portfolio remain favorable. Charge-offs were driven by Card and were in
line with guidance, and there were no reserve actions taken this quarter. Recall last year included a net impact of
a little over $200 million related to the student loan portfolio sale.
Turning to Page 6 and the Corporate & Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $4 billion on revenue of
$10.5 billion and an ROE of 22%. This quarter in Banking, we maintained our #1 ranking in Global IB fees as well
as our #1 rank in North America and EMEA. IB fees were $1.7 billion, down 10% to a record quarter last year,
and strong performance in M&A was more than offset by lower debt and equity underwriting fees.
Advisory fees were up 15% year-on-year as we saw good momentum and some large deals closed. We ranked
#1 in global M&A wallet and gained share in every region, and for the quarter, we announced and completed
more deals than any other bank.
Equity underwriting fees were down 19% in a market that was also down and versus a strong first quarter last
year, which included a number of large deals. This quarter, we ranked #3 in a very competitive environment.
And debt underwriting fees were down 18%, driven by a slow start to the year, primarily due to increased market
volatility, which reduced issuance. Despite these headwinds, we maintained our #1 ranking globally, and looking
forward to the rest of the year, across products, the overall pipeline remains strong.
Moving onto Markets. Total Markets revenue was $6.6 billion, up 13% year-on-year reported. However, as
mentioned, this includes the mark-to-market gains we called out on the front page and also includes a reduction
of about $150 million reflecting lower tax equivalent adjustments year-on-year. Accounting for both of these items,
Markets revenues would have been up about 7%.
Fixed Income Markets adjusted revenue was flat versus a strong first quarter last year with rates and spread
markets reversing to more normal levels following significant outperformance last year being offset by strong
emerging markets and commodities performance.
It was a record quarter for equities and revenue was up 25%, a well-diversified story driven by broad strength and
continued momentum throughout the quarter with increased volatility benefiting all of equity derivatives. In
addition, we saw share gains in cash and continued client activity driving growth in prime as the investments that
we'd made in the business are paying off.
Page 3 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Treasury Services and Securities Services revenues were both $1.1 billion for the quarter and up 14% and 16%,
respectively, driven by higher rates and balances. Securities Services also benefited from asset-based fee growth
on both market levels and new client activity.
Finally, expense of $5.7 billion was up 9% year-on-year, half being higher compensation expense with a
comp-to-revenue ratio of 29% and the remainder primarily driven by higher transaction costs in Markets.
Moving to Commercial Banking on Page 7. Another very good quarter in this business with net income of $1
billion and ROE of 20%. Revenue was up 7% year-on-year driven by higher deposit NII as we continued to
benefit from higher rates, partially offset by lower IB revenue. Sequentially, revenue was down 8% largely driven
by the impact of tax reform.
Gross IB revenue of $569 million was down 15% year-on-year on a lower overall industry wallet and fewer large
transactions versus last year. That said, the underlying flow of business remains robust. In fact, it was a record
quarter for Middle Markets clients, and the pipeline looks strong.
Expense of $844 million was up year-on-year as we continued to invest in the business both in bankers and
technology.
Loan balances were up 6% year-on-year and flat sequentially. C&I loans were up 5% on strength in our
expansion markets as well as specialized industries, but down 1% sequentially, roughly in line with the industry.
CRE loans were up 7% year-on-year and up 1% quarter-on-quarter as the competition is significantly elevated.
So both while client sentiment is high in the wake of corporate tax reform and we remain hopeful that this will
support higher demand later in the year, we're not seeing that yet and we are maintaining pricing and credit
discipline.
Finally, credit performance continued to be very good with 0 net charge-offs this quarter.
Moving on to Asset & Wealth Management on Page 8. Asset & Wealth Management reported net income of $770
million with a pretax margin of 26% and an ROE of 34%. Revenue of $3.5 billion was up 7% year-on-year, driven
primarily by higher management fees on growth in AUM as well as higher NII on deposit margin expansion and
loan growth.
Expense of $2.6 billion was down year-on-year as the first quarter of last year included nearly $400 million of
legal expense. Adjusted, expense would have been up 8% driven by higher external fees on revenue as well as
higher compensation.
For the quarter, we saw net long-term inflows of $16 billion, including $5 billion in active equities, with strength
across all regions benefiting from strong long-term performance.
We saw net liquidity outflows of $21 billion, largely driven by a combination of recent M&A activity and the impact
of cash repatriation due to tax reform.
AUM of $2 trillion and overall client assets of $2.8 trillion were up 10% and 9%, respectively, on higher market
levels globally as well as net inflows. Deposits were down 9% year-on-year, reflecting the migration into
investments, which we previously discussed, but were about flat sequentially on seasonally higher balances.
Finally, we had record loan balances up 12% with strength in both mortgage as well as other loans globally.
Moving to Page 9 on Corporate. Corporate reported a net loss of $383 million. The net loss of $187 million in
Treasury and CIO was primarily due to losses related to securities sales. The net loss of $196 million in Other
Corporate reflects approximately $100 million after-tax loss on legacy private equity investments as well as a net
tax expense on adjustments and true-ups to certain reserves. And you'll recall that last year included a legal
benefit and last quarter, of course, included the impact of tax reform.
Finally, turning to Page 10 and the outlook. Given Investor Day is only 6 weeks behind us, we've not changed our
guidance for the full year of 2018.
So to wrap up, we are pleased with the firm's performance this quarter with all of our businesses showing
continued and broad strength in an overall environment that remains supportive. And while acknowledging the
tailwinds of tax reform and higher rates, the consistent performance of business drivers is translating into top line
growth and positive operating leverage with revenues and pretax income both up double digits year-on-year.
Page 4 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

So with that, operator, we can take some questions.
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from John McDonald of Bernstein.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD, SENIOR ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO., LLC., RESEARCH
DIVISION: Marianne, wanted to ask about LIBOR. We saw a big increase this quarter. Can you remind us how
LIBOR affects you, kind of pros and cons? Where do you have LIBOR sensitivity on the asset side? And where
do you have it on the funding cost sensitivity to LIBOR and how should we think net-net about that?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. Okay, so I'll just -- I'll sort of end with the upshot, which is that net-net, the impact to our
results in the quarter was a very modest positive, So a pretty small number, but on the positive direction. And
we've actually seen this a little bit before, I can't remember, a year or so ago. We are more sensitive, as you
know, to the front end of rates, but principally to IOER and prime. So while we do have exposure to LIBOR
repricing, it's both on the asset and liability side, as you mentioned, and we also have exposure, a combination of
1 year -- 1-month and 3-month LIBOR. So if you look sort of net across the assets and liabilities side, they
materially offset. We don't have sort of significant mismatches. And so as a consequence, obviously, we benefit
from a higher level of absolute short rates, but the basis widening hasn't been very meaningful to our NII. And I
mean examples of assets that reprice off LIBOR would be the Commercial Banking loans and obviously,
unhedged -- or hedged fixed -- hedged long-term debt, sorry, on the liability side.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD: Okay. And then just as a follow-up, wondering about the drivers of the 7% expected
growth in fee income for this year. At Investor Day, you mentioned you've got some bounce-back from headwinds
in Card and Markets, but also core growth of I think about $2.5 billion you mentioned. So what are the drivers of
that overall 7% fee income? If you could just give us some color there, that would be great.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So let's start with sort of 3 relatively big drivers. So yes, as we have now sort of lapped
the big Sapphire Reserve, high-premium vintages, our net acquisition costs are substantially lower and so that is
a tailwind. Plus, we are seeing regular way BAU growth in the Card NIR sort of drivers. Similarly, Markets, as we
talked about, after the first quarter performance, that's a driver. And then there's the ongoing sort of growth in the
auto lease income space, which is significant. Outside of that, you look at our underlying drivers across the board
in terms of new accounts and debit trends and card sales and asset management fees as a driver, too. So there's
obviously a level of market dependency to it, but a bit of the sort of outsized year-on-year increase is seeing the
somewhat tailwind of Card and Markets, both in the trading and in the asset management space.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR, SENIOR MD, SENIOR RESEARCH ANALYST & FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCH
ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI, RESEARCH DIVISION: There was a comment in the prepared text on -- in lending
and Commercial Banking being "intensely competitive" and led to no real growth, yet I saw your -- the comments
about 5% and 7% C&I growth and CRE growth. So I wonder if you could just flesh that out a little bit more about
the competitive landscape, and I guess that's a pricing issue mostly?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so I'd start with year-over-year, we're still getting significant benefit from our investment
in expansion markets and also, as you know, we had a pretty -- we have a pretty unique sort of offering in terms
of [commercial] term lending. And so for a period of time, in both of those spaces, we've been materially
outperforming the market and so we're still seeing the benefit of that in our year-over-year numbers.
Quarter-over-quarter -- and the trouble with C&I loans is there can also be volatility associated with held-for-sale
mortgage portfolio seasonality -- sorry, mortgage warehouse seasonality and stuff like that. But
quarter-over-quarter, what we're seeing is just the impact of the sort of overall industry-wide slowdown and the
fact that, you're right, it's not just pricing, it's just generally we continue to be very selective and cautious given
where we are in the cycle. But we're not expecting flat for the year; we're expecting growth in the mid-single digits
for the year and we still believe that there should be demand. And in the CTL space and commercial real estate
more generally, that's where the competition really has stepped up very significantly and that where -- that really
is where pricing has become fiercely competitive and there's been compression.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR: And I just wanted a quick follow-up on your -- all the comments related to the capital
proposals. The simple question I have is hearing you loud and clear on the -- on everything related to risk-based
capital. But the clear improvement on the leverage side, in the SLR, does that theoretically -- I know that's just a
proposal right now, would that theoretically free up more activity in repo land and other short-term investments
that soak up leverage capital, but not much risk-based capital?
Page 5 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MARIANNE LAKE: I mean, so generally, across the sort of whole industry, I suspect the answer the question is
yes. But remember, for us, that we haven't been constrained by leverage, Tier 1 leverage, or SLR over the last
several years and it's a result, obviously, of the business mix we have and operating model that we have that we
can socialize some of our scarcest resources across the company. And so we wouldn't expect that our behaviors
have changed materially.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Mike Mayo of Wells Fargo.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO, MD, HEAD OF U.S. LARGE-CAP BANK RESEARCH & SENIOR ANALYST,
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC, RESEARCH DIVISION: Can you just give a little bit more of your
expectations for Consumer and specifically digital banking? The active online users were up 5% year-over-year,
but for the quarter, it was up 12% annualized. And I know there's always a risk in annualizing a number. So is that
change in online users seasonal? Or is it structural? Just a little more color on that.
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So I'll give you my best thoughts. I would say it's a little bit more structural than it is
seasonal and we've been seeing continued growth in both digital and especially the mobile channels and it's a lot
to do with adding features, and as we talked about at Investor Day, making it compelling for people to digitally
move money, which makes them become much more engaged and all of the good things that come with that. In
addition, we talked also I think at Investor Day about the fact that we've recently added digital account opening.
And so I couldn't give you exact amounts of what is driving -- which ones of those is driving what, but we would
continue to expect a bit of a structural acceleration, certainly we hope for it.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: And then a follow-up on that. So is this money sticky or not? And if you could
elaborate more on the deposit beta. I know you've been pretty cautious saying that money could flee more easily
because if it's digital it goes. On the other hand, does it become more sticky because you have these
connections?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so I think we sort of talked about the fact that digitally engaged customers are more
loyal, that they spend more and they bring us more deposits and investments. So we gave you the stats I think at
Investor Day, we see more card spend, both debit and credit, but we also see higher deposits and investments for
digitally active customers. So overall, it's really good for our franchise to have these customers engaged and we
hope they also use our branches, by the way. With respect to deposit betas, we've talked before about the 2
theses. The first, which is the one that we generally subscribe to, is that a combination of the ability to use
technology, the transparency and expectation of higher rates as well as potentially, over time, the value of retail
deposits liquidity, that we would expect higher reprice. And we haven't changed our expectation on that, but we
haven't seen it yet either. So we're going to have to watch that movie play out. There is the other side of that
argument that other people, many people subscribe to, which is the customer experience investments, the
convenience, the brand, the marketing, the digital features, the products and services, the rewards all become
increasingly important and customers are less price-sensitive. So I guess we'll all know it when it finally unfolds.
As you know, we sort of take a little bit more of a conservative view, but where we are right now in the
normalization cycle specifically, for sort of the retail checking and savings, is we haven't yet seen that unfold. We
have seen migration in Asset Wealth Management balances and that's to be expected to be a leading indicator.
So this will unfold over the course of the next year or so.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR, MD, DEUTSCHE BANK AG, RESEARCH DIVISION: Can you provide an update on
your interest rate sensitivity with the recent move in rates that we've had?
MARIANNE LAKE: I'm sorry, say that again?
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR: Just an update on your interest rate sensitivity from here?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So we've seen 2 things happen, I guess. We've seen -- obviously, we've rolled forward
a quarter. I think, our earnings-at-risk disclosed at the end of last quarter was $1.7 billion [evolved] for the quarter
and that comes down a little as we sort of realized the rate benefit, but we've also seen, as you know, somewhere
in the sort of mid-40s basis point increase in rates as the sort of front and long end, which would also have a
somewhat significant impact. So $1.7 billion will be down quite meaningfully, I would expect, at the end of the first
quarter, but you'll those disclosures in our Q.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately within the trading businesses, not a surprise there's a
big increase in the average VaR. Obviously, there's a lot of volatility in the number of the products out there -- or
the markets out there. But just any way to think about like how much the VaR increased? And you had some
Page 6 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

increase in trading revenues, but maybe not as much as one would think when you see the VaR up that much. Is
there correlation between those 2 from a magnitude point of view?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I think it's extremely difficult to draw a straight line between VaR and all its complexities
and revenues in any one quarter. And if I just sort of unpick it for you first -- and by the way, just to reiterate that
it's still at relatively low levels relative to historical norms when we've been in more normal trading environments
with higher levels of volatility and inventory and the like. So I would just unpick it and say of the increase, more
than half was related to volatility and obviously, some of the volatility was somewhat significant. We wouldn't
necessarily expect to see that level continue, albeit that we would expect to continue to see periods or episodes
of significant volatility. And a bit less than half has to do with positions principally, but not exclusively as a result of
higher levels of client activity in the CIB and you saw the balance sheet also go up and risk-weighted assets and
so on.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
ERIKA NAJARIAN, MD AND HEAD OF US BANKS EQUITY RESEARCH, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH, RESEARCH
DIVISION: So my first question to you, Marianne, is if the stress capital buffer becomes final as proposed and
now the industry has a BAU CET1 minimum that could move year to year, how does that change your outlook on
how to think about dividends and buybacks from here?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So I mean, I would start a little bit with -- so when you say as written, if you take the last
year's spot -- stress capital buffer, you've seen just from history for us that, that could be significant. So there are
3 observations I have. The first is when we think about capital planning, I think rightly, you would expect us and
we do think about it over more than a 1-year cycle. And while we have very significant earnings capacity, we don't
want to be sort of up and down and sideways and find ourselves sideways. So I think there will be some
implications of the potential for volatility in the calibration of management buffers. And so whether it's in a higher
or lower SEB or whether it has to be taken into consideration so that we aren't caught sideways for the test result
that is, with respect, once a year and a little bit opaque. The second thing I would highlight to you is for what it's
worth, you saw our Investor Day sort of I won't say guidance, but sort of indication that we would expect to try and
have payouts at or around 100%, say, plus or minus and you see our ratios are a little bit below 12%. So I think
that puts us on reasonably solid footing regardless of the precision of it to sort of understand how the rules play
out. Finally, I hope and I believe, I suspect, that through the comment period, the implications of volatility will be
properly explored and that hopefully, there will be some sort of mechanism considered to accommodate, smooth
or otherwise allow for things not to be whipsawed around based upon the specificity of the test. And the margin, I
guess, the fourth point, but it's not something that we overthink is having the four quarters of dividend explicitly
included notwithstanding that the (inaudible) is lifted kind of makes it dollar-for-dollar capital. So at the margin, I
guess that makes people think carefully, but we would still want to pay out a strong healthy dividend on growing
earnings.
ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And my follow-up question, I wanted to follow up to your response to Glenn's question
on SLR. I think there was some excitement from your investors if you look at your 4Q Banking sub-SLR, I think it
was 6.7% off of a 6% minimum and that would clearly go to 4.75%. But just to make sure I understood your
response, even if you could add low risk-weight exposure according to that constraint, that leverage exposure
feeds into the size component of the GSIB surcharge calculation. And so for there to be more freed balance
sheet, you also really need to recalibrate the GSIB surcharge. Did I get that?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I mean, that's definitely one of the factors. But just the other sort of slightly cruder
first-order factor is we are running 70 basis points above our minimum. So if you reduce the minimum by another
100 or 200 basis points, whatever the number is, we already had excess capacity. And so when we think about
the use of our resources, we obviously think about let's maximize SBA and so we haven't felt extraordinarily
constrained, I would say. So there's that kind of just sort of basic we haven't been maybe as constrained as
maybe others have been and that is what it is. And so while we'll continue to make every decision incrementally
based upon marginal SBA, but you are right, you have to take into consideration all the knock-on impacts. I mean,
our stock price alone impacts GSIB.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK, MD, MORGAN STANLEY, RESEARCH DIVISION: Question on LIBOR, I know you
discussed it relative to the loan book. I'm wondering if you could give us some color on how the LIBOR changes
impacted trading?

Page 7 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So look, I would say that in the Fixed Income space, it was a sort of discussion and it
was a feature or a factor; and even in Equities, to be honest, that it was part of the discussion. But I wouldn't say
that we could point to it materially impacting our trading results.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: And then the follow-up is just on the mark-to-market gains that you called out, the
$505 million. It looks to me like you've called it out as mark-to-market gains on certain equity investments. I just
wanted to understand why it's really showing up in Fixed Income instead of Equity trading line. Is that the correct
interpretation of the slide?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So think about -- so many of these investments are years old, many years old and think
about them as strategic investments that relate to business activity, for example, illustratively, like in financial
market infrastructures or clearinghouses or exchanges or so on, also some strategic investments potentially
related to other parts of the business. So it just happens to be the case that those investments years ago relate
and continue to relate to Fixed Income more than Equities and they were previously held at cost. And as there are
observable prices, as you know, this quarter, we have to reflect that. So it's really the nature of the investment.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL, RESEARCH ANALYST, THE BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP
INCORPORATED: Maybe just a question on the TCJA. I know there's overall wondering if it's going to have an
impact on loan growth, but what about credit? Do you think that, that has any positive impact, I guess, particularly
on the Corporate side with higher cash flows going forward, lower tax rate? How do you think about reserving and
your expected loss rates going forward?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I would say across the board actually, all the way from small business through Middle
Market, we're expecting sort of higher earnings, more free cash flow and, generally speaking, that would improve
the sort of credit quality of the portfolio. And we will only really see that come through as we get financials and
see that in the financials and are able to reflect that in our internal ratings. But we would expect to see some
positive lift as a result of that over time. So no doubt it helps, but it helps in a rising rate environment so there's a
lot of stuff is a minus, it's a yes. It's a tailwind for credit overall.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL: Right. Okay, great. And then maybe just following up on asset yields. You saw
overall asset yields jump pretty nicely given the higher rate environment. But Securities portfolio yields were
down. Is that sort of a shortening duration or just a mix issue? Shouldn't we expect the Securities yields to be
moving higher in this environment?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, we could. What it is actually is the tax equivalent adjustments that I mentioned. So you're
seeing the sort of relative impact of sort of lower tax gross-ups in our muni portfolio, in investment securities. If
you were to adjust to that, they would have been up in line with rates.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN, MD AND SENIOR EQUITY RESEARCH ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC,
RESEARCH DIVISION: Marianne, you mentioned that on the Consumer side, you had no incremental reserving
actions, and I'm wondering if you can just kind of give us a state of the Consumer to that extent. Are you feeling
just better? Or was it also related to kind of just the growth math starting to look a little bit better in Card and auto?
MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say we still feel really good about the Consumer, I mean really good. And so while
you can look at the sort of overall sort of levels of Consumer indebtedness and look at the fact that they've
reached a peak and Student Lending is driving that in a large part, it's also clearly the case that people have had
a long time to repair their balance sheet and term out debt at low rates and become more liquid and so sort of
debt service burdens are still manageable. And so over -- and confidence is high and perhaps should be a
benefit, generally speaking. So overall, we still feel pretty good and it's showing a little bit in our sort of consumer
spend data where we're seeing that confidence continue to sort of spur a bit in spending. With respect to reserves
-- so our expectation and our belief about the strength of Consumer continues to be optimistic. And then further,
of course, you know that our portfolio particularly is skewed towards higher-quality credit and so we aren't seeing
any signs of fragility or deterioration across the portfolio across the board. So we feel pretty good.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: Got it. And my follow-up, the Card revenue rate, it was nice to see it really a spiked
up, 11.6%. And then you guys have been talking about it getting to 11.25% by midyear. Any updated thoughts on
just that trajectory and where you expect that to go over time now?

Page 8 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I mean much like we talked about with Card charge-offs, right, there is some
seasonality. So the first quarter revenue rate would normally be seasonally higher. Having said that, you're right,
we do see some revenue outperformance in the Card space a little bit. And so a big point, if you were to ask me
11.25%, well, it's certainly a very, very solid expectation, probably higher for the year.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Saul Martinez of UBS.
SAUL MARTINEZ, MD & ANALYST, UBS INVESTMENT BANK, RESEARCH DIVISION: I apologize if you
already addressed this question, Marianne, but can you just talk to the -- how you're feeling about the pipeline in
Investment Banking? Obviously, it was a little bit of a soft quarter for you and for everybody. And just how are you
thinking about the pipelines, deal activity in light of Daniel's -- I think Daniel's guidance at the Investor Day or
expectations that advisory and ECM might be up a little bit, DCM down a little bit. I don't know if you guys have
any updated thoughts on the outlook.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I mean, I just -- first of all, I would just talk a tiny bit about the quarter because I think it's
important and it's instructive. First of all, last quarter was a -- last -- this quarter last year, I'm sorry, was a record
and so not that we don't always want to repeat or beat those, I still feel like we did pretty well. And it's a little bit
like the Fixed Income story. Last year, equities and Equity Markets and DCM was up and M&A was less strong
and this year that turned around. And I would say as we look at the results in ECM and DCM that were down,
there were a few -- we were under-indexed to the larger fee events for a combination of reasons, some outside of
our control and some regrettable. And also some deals that we had hoped would close moved into the second
quarter, which is all to say that actually, if you look across the board, M&A still looks strong, DCM and ECM
pipelines also look strong. Overall, the pipeline is well ahead of this time last year. So as long as the market
remains constructive, we should continue to see reasonable momentum across products, but as you say,
thematically M&A and equities, likely to benefit more strongly than DCM in a rate-rising environment. And so
confidence is strong, activity levels, we saw announced volumes are up. We printed a #1 wallet M&A quarter. So
as long as market volatility, regulatory-driven (inaudible) uncertainty doesn't escalate, we're feeling pretty good
about the second quarter and into the year.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
GERARD S. CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC, RESEARCH DIVISION: Can you give us any
color on when you look at your franchise, your Consumer franchise, is there parts of the country that are more
competitive for deposits, whether that's metro New York versus California versus Texas? And could you give us
some color on what you guys are seeing geographically on deposit growth and the competition?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I mean I'll make just some thematic comments and if you still have questions, you can
maybe speak to IR because I don't have everything in front of me. But I will tell you this, we compete with
everyone across the board. We compete with the large money center banks, we compete with regional banks,
with local banks and so there's plenty of competition in all markets and we monitor the market dynamics, as you
say, at a pretty granular level and so we will respond accordingly. And I think we do pretty well across the board
and I wouldn't call anyone out as standing out or anyone out as clearly being more challenging, but that's an
ongoing sort of iterative dynamic process. So we compete -- everywhere we compete, we compete with a lot of
people who want these higher quality liquidity deposits or they want these relationships, and so do we.
GERARD S. CASSIDY: Okay. And I apologize if you addressed this, I had to jump off the call for a minute. The
deposit beta, where does it stand today for you folks? And on Investor Day, you gave us a very good trajectory of
where you think it's going to. Are you still on that trajectory of where you think you should be?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So with deposit betas, you have to sort of dig deep because there's a sort of full
spectrum. We are, as an industry, firmly on a reprice journey, no doubt. And so the sort of state of play and the
maturity of that reprice journey depends upon the specifics of the business and the client. And so at the -- sort of
at the Wholesale sort of top end, reprice is really reasonably high. Not to say that there's nowhere left to go, but
it's reasonably high and pretty consistent. And as you go down through into the Middle Market space and small
business and all the way down to the retail space, it's still relatively early days given the absolute level of rate.
And so we continue to see the journey. As I said, we've seen migration in Asset & Wealth Management now for a
few quarters as people are sort of reassessing deposits versus investments. We're retaining those investments,
so we feel good about that. That is generally a precursor to what we will see in retail at some point in the future,
not yet. But with respect to the final part of your question, which was are we still feeling like the trajectory we
showed you is our central case and the answer is yes at this point.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Page 9 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

CHRISTOPH M. KOTOWSKI, MD AND SENIOR ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO. INC., RESEARCH
DIVISION: You touched on this in a tangential way, but let me ask it a different way. If we look at your Card fees
on a consolidated basis, back in 2014, '15, before you had the Sapphire launch, it was running around $1.5 billion
a quarter. It bottomed out late '16 and early '17 at $900 million. And now you're up to the $1.275 billion. Should
we expect -- as Sapphire completely matures, should we expect that to go back to the $1.5 billion, $1.6 billion a
quarter? Or is that ancient history and not indicative of anything?
MARIANNE LAKE: So I can't really comment in dollars. Let me -- I'll tell -- 2 things. The first is that we've given
you, so for 2018 anyway, our expectation of the revenue rate that will be now likely above the 11.25% we
previously said. I will tell you we are largely -- we have lapped. We have lapped the Sapphire Reserve quarters
now, right. So the big quarters, the 100,000 quite premier quarters, those were in the fourth quarter and the first
quarter -- the fourth quarter of 2016, the first quarter of last year. So I would call that in the rearview mirror now.
And from here, we grow with the growth in the accounts and the businesses and the spend. So we still expect to
grow, but remember that also in that rebaselining, and I can't remember which period you called out, but also
remember we have gone through a whole renegotiation of all our Card's co-brand relationships, too, that have an
impact. So growth will be an offset. We've had some structural step-down for the reprice of the co-brand, albeit
they're still great partnerships and we consider them valuable. Sapphire, we've lapped and from here, hopefully,
we just continue to grow.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Al Alevizakos of HSBC.
ALEVIZOS ALEVIZAKOS, ANALYST, HSBC, RESEARCH DIVISION: I was wondering. Equities clearly was
strong in the quarter, but I was wondering if you could give us some geographical split. I'm particularly interested,
since I'm based in Europe, to see if you witnessed any impact from the new regulation, especially MiFID II in
either cash or derivatives?
MARIANNE LAKE: Sure. Let me just start like at top of the house and say that we've been talking about globally
investing in bankers and the salespeople and technology and building out our platforms across the cash and
prime space. It is the case because we were not competitive in sort of international synthetic prime years ago and
we now have among best-in-class sort of platform that, that has been part of the growth driver. So I would say
EMEA international prime has been a bright spot generally. So MiFID II, so I would say that there was a concern
about pullback in trading. We saw a bit of hesitation, particularly actually in Fixed Income, less so in equities, but
the market was generally being quite resilient. And so we're still only relatively early days, and within the results
that we have articulated to you, we've seen material increases in EMEA electronic trading, which we think will be
likely somewhat permanent where people are choosing to do high-touch cash trading. We're seeing some
concentration among players, which is all to say that we are seeing the industry wallet decline and margins
compress, but for us, in particular, we're also benefiting from higher volumes. We think we're gaining some share
and we're benefiting from some of that concentration among top players. So net-net, yes, I think there's been
some pressure on the in-scope wallet, but less so than you would think for us. And it's early days, we'll just have
to keep watching it.
OPERATOR: We have no further questions at this time.
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay, thank you, guys. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
Page 10 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020180414ee4d000ul

Page 11 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

