Q1 2010 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
13,927 words
14 April 2010
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the JPMorgan Chase's first quarter 2010
earnings call. This call is being recorded. Your lines will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live
to the presentation. Please stand by.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief
Financial Officer, Mike Cavanagh. Mr. Cavanagh, please go ahead.
MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator. Good morning everybody. It's Mike.
We're going to do the usual here, so I'm going to refer to a presentation that's available on our website, so please
get that in front of you if you don't already have it. And we'll go through that and then take some Q&A at the end.
I'll just remind people to look at the slide in the back that makes the comments about forward-looking statements.
And so with that let me just get going on page one. And just describe the high level trends and the numbers. So
overall, $3.3 billion in net income for the Company, earnings per share of $0.74 on strong revenue number of $28
billion. You see this little table here that shows you what I'll call some large significant items. I'm not going to go
through them here because I'll cover all of them when I hit the relevant business where they appear. I'll just say
it's in two broad buckets as you can see from here. One, it's the adjustments to levels of loan loss or credit cost,
loan loss reserves related to credit across Investment Bank, Retail and Card. That's where you'll hear those. And
then a couple of items of significance in our Corporate segment, both investment portfolio gains as well as some
litigation reserves we've put up there, so we'll cover that when we get to Corporate. So the themes, though, are a
very strong Investment Banking results on strong Fixed Iincome markets revenue and continued strength in the
investment banking fee side. Consumer credit trends you're going to hear are all starting to look very good on the
delinquency side and we'll cover that further in the businesses. Other businesses performing strongly as a
general matter and the balance sheet and capital position, obviously as you'll see continuing to be quite strong.
I'm going to skip slide two. You can just look at that. It gives you the sort of GAAP picture, what the numbers look
like that I just referred to versus prior periods.
So let's start with the businesses and do that with the Investment Bank on page three. Here you see the
Investment Bank had net income of $2.5 billion, the circled number there over on the left on revenues of $8.3
billion. That's an ROE of 25% on the $40 billion of allocated capital we have in the Investment Bank that we just
increased at the beginning of the year. Going through some of the components, I already made the comment
about how our investment banking fee number is a number one share on a year-to-date basis, $1.4 billion of
revenues in the quarter on strong bond underwriting versus prior quarters. You'll see a page in the Appendix in
the back that gives you a sense for where we are across the various capital raising areas, but continue to feel
very good about the Investment Bank corporate finance side of things and the prospects for the rest of the year
looking ahead and taking a look at the pipeline. On the Fixed Income and Equity Markets side, I would just say
very strong results and it's generally speaking across all desks, and all areas. $5.5 billion of revenues in Fixed
Income Markets and $1.5 billion in Equity Markets. And so that gets you really to the overall revenues that we
have of, $8.3 billion.
So the next item that really drives the Investment Bank P&L is credit costs, so here you see we had a release, an
actual benefit, a net benefit in credit costs as reserve take-downs exceeded charge-offs. Charge-offs themselves
were offset by reserves because as you know in this business, we downgrade and put up reserves in advance of
a charge-off event. So there was for those amounts of actual charge-offs in the quarter there were already
reserves covering the P&L, so it's just a line swing there. So the net release really comes from the fact that we
Page 1 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

had loan sales that were done inside our marks net of reserves and, therefore, had excess reserves after we sold
those loans and the same with some loan paydowns that happened as you continue to see the trend in end of
period loans, dramatically changing versus prior periods, as large corporates have substantial access to the
capital markets. So the next point there, I would just say, allowance for loan losses at $2.6 billion after the change
in reserves against loans is about 5%, would be about 7% or so had we not consolidated the conduits as part of
the FAS 166/167 stuff. So the issue there, moving on then to NPLs. I just want to point NPL's down from $3.5
billion to $2.7 billion.
The last point I'll make in the Investment Bank is just on the expense side, $4.8 billion of expenses in the quarter.
Two drivers there, 35% comp to revenue ratio. That is just an outcome of the real underlying detailed analysis we
do on risk adjusted returns in the business by area comes out to that number. In a strong quarter with $8.3 billion
worth of revenue, you would expect to be at the lower end of the range that we talked about last quarter of 35% to
40%, but that number will bounce around based upon the underlying methodology and obviously it's a first quarter
accrual that will get trued-up and will be competitive and do what we need to do over the course of the full year.
The other item is some increased litigation reserves including for some mortgage related items in the Investment
Bank as well. So that's it for the Investment Bank.
Retail Financial Services, moving on to slide four. Here I'm not going to go through all these drivers. You can look
at them for yourself. They generally trend consistent with what we've seen before, good growth in the Retail
Banking side. But what I do want to point out, we sent out an 8-K last week to just give you the new segmentation
after Charlie's Investor Day presentation telling you how we were going to attempt to get a better, cleaner view of
what the mortgage banking origination side and auto and student lending, consumer lending businesses would
look like without the noise of the real estate portfolios which have obviously been suffering and will continue to.
So that's really what we've done in the middle box, is separate out and you'll see it on the next profit and loss
page, the same dynamic. At the bottom, real estate portfolios, it's the totality of the home equity lending business,
on balance sheet as well as the mortgage balances, whether it's Chase originated, WaMu originated, those are
the dynamics rolling through there. What you see in the middle is the mortgage origination side, production
revenue, MSR risks management, warehouse and so forth as well as the auto business, primarily is the big one
away from mortgage.
So moving on to the next page which just tells you what happened on the P&L for the quarter. In Retail Banking
you see net income was $131 million loss. Up on the upper left there. And again, it's a tale of two cities. So taking
piece by piece, you see about $900 million worth of profits in Retail Banking, up a little bit year-over-year, down a
little bit quarter-over-quarter. Couple less days on net interest income versus last quarter is the decline there, and
then behaviors as well as some of our changes in number of items, bringing down quarter-over-quarter some of
the NSF/OD fees in this quarter versus the fourth quarter.
Moving on to mortgage banking, the only thing I'll really point out is in the revenue side, when you look at the big
comparison versus a year ago, I'll just remind you that we made about $1 billion which was an extraordinary
positive on MSR risk management a year ago, was slightly positive this year and that's the big swing factor in
revenues year-over-year. We continue to have embedded in those revenue numbers elevated levels of
repurchased contra revenues there. Stable with what we had in the past couple of quarters, about $400 million
worth or so of repurchased reserve expense. Finally, on the real estate side, you see the bottom line, $1.3 billion
loss net of the continued high level of credit costs, but as well, a $1.3 billion, $1.2 billion adjustment to loan loss
reserves for the WaMu credit impaired portfolio.
Let me drill into credit trends here for Home Lending on page six. So I'll point you now to page 15 in our
Appendix, which shows you the delinquency trends across all the major portfolios on the consumer side including
these portfolios in Credit Card and what you will see in all of those is improvements in early bucket delinquencies.
So we do see that, we'll talk about it more when we get to credit card. So that backdrop is favorable for where we
may go from here. But in the quarter itself, you'll see, if you're looking at the left of the page, balances continue to
come down versus prior year in these portfolios. We're not originating at these kind of levels, that we talked
before. So balances continue to come down. Charge-offs stabilizing a little lower than what it was last quarter and
given what I just said about the early bucket delinquency trends improving somewhat, we are hopeful that we may
see some improvement in these numbers such that we don't achieve the prior outlook which continues to be
printed on the right side of the page. We're not yet ready to lower those numbers, but we'll just say that that's
what we had said before. We're seeing some positive trends and hopefully in another couple of months we can
report some improvements on actual trajectory of charge-offs on the back of the improved delinquency trends,
just not ready to do that yet.
When it comes down at the bottom right to just the WaMu credit impaired portfolios, as you know, we have to do
life of loan reserving here and so all I would say here is we're not seeing the pace of improvement in the WaMu
Page 2 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

portfolio, particularly on the prime side, whether it's prime mortgage or prime option ARM that we're seeing in the
rest of the Chase portfolios on average due to concentrations in FICO scores, lower FICO scores and
geographies. That slower pace of improvement, when you roll it through lifetime loss expectations and some of
the other inputs, yields a true-up of the lifetime loss expectations that we have to reserve for, so that's a $1.2
billion reserve addition in aggregate for WaMu credit impaired.
So moving on to Credit Card on slide seven. See net income of $300 million loss. The big story is credit. Let me
talk about charge-offs first. So you'll see on the Chase, over on the left side, down towards the bottom, you see
the 10.54% net charge-off ratio, that's excluding WaMu, which is the way we talk about it. As you know, we had a
benefit due to a payment holiday done early last year which is about a 60 basis point negative impact versus the
same benefit last quarter. So on a normalized basis, right around a 10%, or plus or minus charge-off ratio. I'll say
it now because it comes on the outlook page, that we see that normalized 10%-ish type of charge-off ratio in the
next quarter trending more towards 9.5%, plus or minus. And if these delinquency trends that you'll see in the
back Appendix continue, hopefully we get improvement further from there in the second half of the year. On the
back of all that we've had a lowering of our loan loss allowance by $1 billion in the Credit Card business on the
back of everything I just described.
In terms of the rest of the P&L, you see revenues affected by the decline in outstandings, which is a large part
driven by seasonal effects versus last quarter as well as rundown of WaMu portfolios and sales volumes
seasonally down versus last quarter as well, affecting revenues. Otherwise, feel good about the underlying health
of the business and the progress we're making there and so that is the main drivers of what's going on in credit
card for the loss this quarter. Moving on now to Commercial Banking, slide eight.
So the Commercial Bank made about $400 million worth of net revenue. Not really a lot different about the story
here than what we've talked about before, so let me cover it briskly here. But I'd say one thing to point out is
continued slower pace of but continued reduction in level of loans and leases, $97 billion in the quarter, down
from $100 billion last quarter. So while businesses feel to us to be adjusted and poised to grow when they get
orders in and have need to do it, they aren't yet at that point. We're seeing that more in small business. I didn't
cover that on the retail page, but we did see some pick-up in small business demand and lending there, about $2
billion of originations in the quarter. Here you're yet to see that effect but we're hopeful that that could be coming
shortly.
On the other side of the revenue effect of the balance sheet to key liability balances, cash deposits that are left
with us up from a year ago at $133 billion, and up a little bit from last quarter at $122 billion. So that, together with
continued good performance on the fee side in revenue, Treasury Services products and Investment Banking
fees which continue to be strong, get you to about flattish revenue quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. Credit
side improvement from last quarter, with credit costs in total of $214 million. Largely, 75% of the credit costs
coming from real estate related portfolios, which as you know were underweighted on a relative basis. And so
nonetheless, we end the quarter with north of 3% allowance to loan loss reserves against 96 basis point
charge-off rate in the quarter.
Treasury and Security Services on slide nine, again, We'll start with net income, $279 million, up a little bit from
last quarter, but just covering the revenue side. So you see in Worldwide Security Services, the securities side,
we're still seeing the negative impact of declining deposit balances, as well as continued narrow and somewhat
narrowing spreads on securities lending in the quarter and FX revenues we get off of that business not fully offset
by the benefit of higher assets under custody at $15.3 trillion in the quarter. So the same dynamics continue to
grind sideways on revenues in that business. And then the Treasury and Security Services side, $882 million of
revenues, you see the average liability balances beginning to stabilize, $250 billion last quarter and $248 billion
this quarter, down from a year ago on the back of flight to quality moving against us after the peaks we saw in late
2008, early 2009. That flowing through on tighter deposit spreads for the revenue effect there and that's really
what explains the P&L in Treasury and Security Services.
Last business, Asset Management on page 10. About $400 million in net income, up a lot year-over-year, down a
touch from last quarter, $2.1 billion worth of revenues on $1.2 trillion in assets under management. I'd say just
remember that versus a year ago, revenues up, given the effect of higher assets under management there, on
higher market levels. And versus last quarter, the decline is really just driven by the absence of performance fees
which are billed largely as a seasonal event in the fourth quarter. So health of the business looks good here. We
have seen some decline in flows as client activity is putting money back to work out of liquidity products primarily,
but away from that we've actually seen growth in assets under management and flows in products away from
liquidity products, which we think is a good sign of health of the business.

Page 3 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Lastly, Corporate in P&L impact terms. You see total Corporate, we had a little bit of private equity gains,
revenues of $136 million which translates into $55 million worth of net income. And then in Corporate, which is
everything else, we have $173 million of profits. So I'll just hit on the three items that you see described on the
right in the bullets. So again, we had another quarter where we had strong gains. We don't usually count on gains
or guide for gains, but we had gains of $1 billion related to repositioning the Corporate investment portfolio and
some trading activity that happens there. So that's $1 billion positive just to call out and understand that's a
significant item to the positive. We may still have another quarter, we can always have quarters that have some
effect on that line. We may have that again in the second quarter, maybe not to this magnitude, as we continue to
focus on how we want the investment portfolio positioned. The second point is that we continue to benefit,
though, running a large investment portfolio. The net interest income coming off the investment portfolio continues
to run at a higher level than what I would call normalized. And those two effects are the reason why on the
outlook slide this number for Corporate I have us guiding you lower on that as we get towards the end of the year
to a number more like $300 million plus or minus.
One other noisy item in the quarter, not going to get into a lot of details on it -- you see we added $2.3 billion to
litigation reserves in Corporate for the firm, largely related to mortgage related matters. Think about that as we
have repurchased reserves that we've talked about related to the GSEs as an ongoing expense that we've been
reserving for. This relates to the broader question of all other ideas for claims against us from private investors
and others related to whether it's a good portion WaMu related. We just put a lot of energy. We're not unique in
having exposures here. We've talked about these potential exposures before. We just put a lot of energy into
coming up with an estimate to put a marker down in our results and so that's all on that item.
Capital on slide 12. You see we had 11.5% Tier 1 capital ratio and 9.1% Tier 1 common. Just remind people, you
see the bullet below that table, that we did adopt FAS 166/167, bringing variable interest entities on balance
sheet. The real effect is $88 billion worth of GAAP assets, very little risk weighted assets or de minimus risk
weighted assets as we largely had that covered in our risk weightings before. The one real material effect was the
fact that through our actual GAAP equity we had to put up loan loss reserves for the credit card receivables that
came on balance sheet. So that was about $7 billion of reserves pretax, about $4.5 billion decline that just went to
the equity account, negatively impacting capital, but nonetheless you see the ratios are very strong and we end
the quarter with $39 billion worth of total credit reserves ratio of nearly 6%.
So finally, on the Outlook slide, I think I really covered this. Let me just pick through everything that you see on
the retail side is as it was before. As I said, we're not necessarily reaffirming this guidance. Hopefully, it could be
better. But we're not ready to change these numbers. We do see delinquency trends looking positive, but we have
to wait for that to really pull through and more to come in future quarters. Card Services side, I've covered all this.
Again, no real changes from what we've said before, but for the lowering of the charge-off estimate on the Chase
portfolio to down from what we experienced this quarter by about 50 basis points, looking into the second quarter,
with the likelihood of some improvement from there in the second half of the year. Corporate I already talked
about the $300 million plus or minus number that you could expect to see as we get towards the back end of the
year. I'll just remind people that to the extent that there is a bonus tax imposed in the UK, we expect that to be a
second quarter accounting event. And so with that, that is the quarter and that is our outlook. I'll just remind you
we've got a couple of slides here after this that I won't go through that just cover a few of the items I referred to
earlier. So with that we can just open it up to questions operator.
OPERATOR: Our first question will come from the line of Glenn Schorr with UBS.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, Mike. This is Glenn. So just top down, if revenues are very better, very
market related, expenses are a little higher as comp normalizes and credit moving in the right direction, but
trending with directionally with the economy. When you look at the revenue front, you alluded to a little bit in your
prepared remarks, but can we kind of drill down and try to say where are the leading indicators for revenue
growth? Because there's clearly -- there's potentially a bank fee. There's clearly a bunch of revenue headwinds
related to the regulatory changes. Can we parse out where there are some leading indicators for revenue growth
or is that kind of weights on the economy as well?
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Glenn, this is Jamie, just real quickly. Let's all
not call it a bank fee and call it what it is which is a punitive bank tax.
GLENN SCHORR: Fair enough.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, I think you heard me cover some of the items, Glenn. You hit on some of the businesses
are market sensitive, but clearly you look at the market sensitive results and you've got to feel good about the
franchise we've got here. So if the market opportunities present themselves and we're serving our clients and
those businesses can do well. We think secular trends there over the long term are good. Obviously it's too early
Page 4 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

to call what kind of regulatory impacts there could be in any of these businesses and how business models react.
But we're not worried about our ability to compete and do well in the market side businesses.
On the lending side businesses, you clearly have the dynamics of portfolios running off, affecting revenues. Away
from that, though, again I think you see it in noise in some of the numbers quarter-over-quarter, but I think we're
positioned to keep building the businesses, taking market share and growing. So we're investing. The story I
would say is, as you heard in Investor Day, investing for growth in all these businesses. More bankers, more
branches, better products, California and the Commercial Bank. So that's what I would point you to. But secular, I
guess overlying trends of asset rundown and potential for regulatory impacts, yes, we'll have to deal with those.
But we understand that and we'll do fine.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. On that point, the things you've noted and others in the outlook related to whether it be
overdraft policy changes, the anticipation of impact on cards, how much of the fee hits are kind of in the run rate
versus on the comp?
MIKE CAVANAGH: In the first half of the year you'll have a lot of the impacts on card side will be in the run rate.
We're still waiting for a few pieces of Card Act legislation to really be finalized which won't happen until June,
reasonable and proportionate fees. But away from that we are going to have it in our run rates shortly. Retail, we
have a partial impact of some of the actions we took on overdraft fees, reducing number of items in this quarter is
already in the run rate. There's some changes in customer behaviors anyway, lowering overdraft fees in the
quarter. And so the rest of those effects won't come in until the latter part of the year when all the changes go in,
third quarter, I guess. So by the end of the year you would probably see those kind of effects.
GLENN SCHORR: Last quickie, FICC. You've been first of all performance is great, off the charts and you
mentioned it's across products, across regions. Interesting, because VAR is down and you've been signaling
competition's healing. You also signaled I thought that ask spreads were narrowing. Was volume and volatility
that strong that it carried the day to more competition and lower VAR?
JAMIE DIMON: This is Jamie. Number one is VAR is just a measure which is an adequate measure of most
things. Remember, you're dropping very volatile trading months from a year ago and adding very benign trading
months now to VAR. That's a huge reason why VAR has dropped so much. It's not just volatility. First of all,
people did a great job. Spreads are back to kind of where they were. Think of it as they've almost normalized and
that's fine. But a lot of client flow, a lot of volume and good trading around there.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Somebody else's turn. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, Mike. Was wondering on the repurchase reserve,
any color on what drove the improvement in the rapid warranty expense this quarter? GSEs, do you know if
they've hit their kind of peak vintages and if they've kind of full capacity at their putback activities right now.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, that number is going to bounce around a little bit. Putback numbers were about similar to
what they were over the last couple of quarters. No insight into vintage burnout or anything like that yet
JOHN MCDONALD: No insight in terms of whether they're at full capacity and whether they could step up in their
activity levels?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Nothing different than what Charlie covered at Investor Day is what I would say.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. On the -JAMIE DIMON: The bad news may have peaked but let's see if that's true for a while longer.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. On the NSFOD impact, can you give any color on the assumptions that are
incorporated into your estimate of the $500 million hit and is it too early to have confidence in that? Is that really a
guess on your part or do you have some confidence in that hit or is it too early?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I'd say it's better than just a guess. We did work on it when we did it, but it was an early
estimate so let's leave it at that. We need to see how everything evolves from here. But it was a reasonable
estimate when we did it. We need to see how it actually pulls through.
JOHN MCDONALD: You're still offering customers the Opt-in. Have you considered the disallowance on overdraft
on debit that BofA implemented and decided against that?
Page 5 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: So far we think the more consumer-friendly thing is to fairly offer the consumer option. Not to
push it in marketing but to very fairly say you have this option or that option. That still is our intent. And BofA
remember will offer that at the ATM for cash. They'll notify the customer. So we want to treat the customer very
fairly. We think offering them options probably is something they prefer. Remember, they can always turn it down.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Mike, one quick -JAMIE DIMON: And just remember, another option that the customer has is to link to other accounts, link to a
credit card, things which are cheaper. We want to make sure we do all those things also for the customer.
JOHN MCDONALD: Embedded in your $500 million is some estimate of how many customers Opt-in, Mike,
right?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: That's a very static analysis and we'll look at it again and we'll re-up it. We don't think it's going to
change dramatically over time.
JOHN MCDONALD: One quick thing on the SOP 03-3 portfolio, the credit impaired. Mike, other companies are
showing gains to their NIM and NII from purchase accounting accretion seems to be related to the re-pricing of
deposits better than they had marked or in some cases cash flows on the impaired loans coming in better. Do you
have that dynamic going on too and just don't talk about it or is it just different for you because you had different
assumptions in your marks.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Two things. One, it depends on when you did your initial marks and where rate levels were,
so there's one effect of actual market driven assumptions at the time you did things. And two is, we may have that
dynamic over time. Remember, we do the SOP 03-3 evaluation at subportfolios, so we've been focused on our
prime option ARM and prime mortgage portfolios. Other ones have been behaving okay. If the day comes when
we have a view that they'll come in below lifetime loss expectations, we may have an adjustment to make. But
that would be down the road.
JOHN MCDONALD: So far, you've not had NIM accretion, material NIM accretion?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Correct. Yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next will come from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Banc of America-Merrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hi.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit more of an update on what you're seeing
with loan modifications as they affect both first and second mortgages? And how that does or doesn't inform the
change in your tone, if not your guidance, where you're saying that if trends continue then loan losses on home
equity, prime and subprime might not get to those guidance levels. To what extent are modifications affecting that
thought process.
JAMIE DIMON: If you look at HAMP, which is a government program, and I'm looking in total, not for JPMorgan.
The government was aiming for 3 to 4 million mods. We actually think at current ramp rates, take a long time to
ramp it up, we will get to about 2 million on HAMP. That's what we believe, okay. In addition to that, most of the
banks do other modifications which those are good for customers, so for us it's more than double of what we're
doing in terms of HAMP mods.
On the mortgage lending categories, all of the indicators, new delinquencies, roll-rates, step severities there,
they're all getting a little bit better and we think that's good. And that trend stabilized late last year, January,
February, March, we've gotten better. So it's early. Those are actual numbers. You're guessing about what future
changes might be because of legislation or stuff like that and we don't know. We're hoping they'll get better. We
also think a lot of that will be driven by the economy, not by anything else.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: But to the extent that a lot of people think that if you're significantly modifying principal on
even firsts, that that's going to have a negative impact on seconds and the like, are you factoring that thought
process into the fact that you're saying that we might still end up with loss rates below the prior guidance levels?
Page 6 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Based on the way we see it now, Guy.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. That's fair. And then if I can just ask a little bit more detail on the $2.3 billion build in
that litigation reserve. Can you help us understand better the distinctions between the funds that are available
there and what you're doing in the Investment Bank where you also alluded to building some litigation reserve
there? And I'm not sure I understood the distinction that I think you were trying to make between what's available
for the GSE, reps and warranties issues, and what this might be for.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. So let me make this simple, okay? In the Investment Bank, Retail and Corporate, we have
put up rep and warranty reserves and litigation reserves for GSEs and all other mortgages including private
securities. We tried to do it diligently. Some of those numbers ran through the Investment Bank this quarter.
We've broken out the numbers in Retail and we put the numbers in Corporate. A lot of the numbers in Corporate
relate to WaMu. We are not going to give any other information. We think we have properly accrued for reps and
warranties whether they come through on the rep and warranty line or the litigation line. There are legitimate
claims that some of these mortgages were properly done. It's going to be done mortgage by mortgage. Other than
that I think we've done a pretty good job of recognizing the problem early.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks for that. I just have one more question which relates to the Investment Bank. I
noticed that assets basically didn't increase or only a very small amount. And yet, your revenues in particular in
FICC were obviously extremely strong. Is there some color you can give us on increases that you're seeing in
turnover rate of average positions or something like that? Are you just turning the balance sheet very, very
quickly?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's hard to answer the question. There is plenty of client volume and I don't know the turnover
rates offhand. You might see the balance sheet go up a little bit over time from here.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. Great. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Thanks. Couple questions on credit and capital. If the
US economy gets no worse is it safe to assume that you are done adding to reserves on a consolidated basis for
the remainder of this credit cycle?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, again, Betsy, your assumptions about what the future holds is as good as ours. Credit card,
what we look at today, remember, we have real visibility only really into next quarter. Those reserves could be
coming down over time. Mortgage, the numbers are starting to look hopeful, so there's so much uncertainty
around mortgage that I want to see it myself before you actually start taking it down. The real question for
mortgage to me is how long the high losses last. That's the real question for me in mortgage, not just the reserve
number, because huge loss is running through our books today and I think in Commercial, I put all the wholesale
in this, Investment Banking and middle market, it looks like underlying credit trends are getting better, including
the reduction in non-performers, repair of non-performers, and the financial stability of companies.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And on just the mortgage piece, there's a recent HAMP out on earned principal
forgiveness. Could you give us your sense of how you're going to approach this new HAMP modification
program?
JAMIE DIMON: We're working on that now and we're not ideologically opposed to principal forgiveness. The
issue with that it's got to be done loan by loan to be fair. There's no other way to do it that's proper and fair, both
to the mortgage and to the bank and I don't want to double count it because remember, if you do principal
forgiveness, it's not that different than reducing payments for five years. So you can double count a little bit, but if
we change our programs and we add some additional principal forgiveness programs, it might change some of
those loss rates going forward, but we don't know that for sure but it might. Remember, we already have a lot of
reserves for this stuff. High losses are going through. Underlying trends are getting a little better.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: It's also not completely clear what all the government programs, so we're still working to kind of
clarify what it is they meant on some of those programs.
BETSY GRASECK: How far along do you feel you are in the mortgage the sloppy underwriting that was done in
the 2006, 2007, 2008 period?
Page 7 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: 53%.
BETSY GRASECK: 53%.
JAMIE DIMON: Look. Honestly, if things start to peak out and the economy gets better you're through the worst
part, but there's a ways to go. As you all see, as I see what's going on in Washington and things like that, but the
underlying trends look good. We shouldn't forget that.
BETSY GRASECK: Could you just give us some sense as to how you think about the capital that you've got right
now, core Tier 1 9.1%. At what point do you feel you're able to start managing capital either with dividends or
buybacks?
JAMIE DIMON: So I think we've been very clear on the dividend. We want to see real underlying employment
growth for at least several months. That's number one. Number two, we would like to see real and sustained
improvements in delinquencies and charge-offs in mortgages, and that's not just one month. We would like to see
it continue for a while. Number three, I think we've pointed out as have other banks, there's a lot of capital
uncertainty. Uncertainty around Basel II rules, Basel III rules, dividend tax rules, bonus tax rules and we would
like to see some of that clear up before we start using our capital. So that number will probably continue to go up
over time. We want to make sure that we are always, always properly capitalized and this Company is never
questioned and if you end up with excess you capital you haven't thrown it away, you just get to use it later.
BETSY GRASECK: Right. There's just a question as you -- could you potentially be in the same position you are
now with card where your reserves are very high relative to your forward look on losses. Could you end up in a
position where you've got significant amounts of capital and you're not able to deploy it as quickly as you would
like?
JAMIE DIMON: It's possible, yes.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then on real employment growth, are you talking about net job creation? Are you
talking about just unemployment going down?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm talking about net job creation. That is the really important thing, getting more people back to
work. The other number has a lot of other calculations in it.
BETSY GRASECK: That could have a fairly long tail to it.
JAMIE DIMON: No. I think what I mean by real job creation is that we really believe we've got a sustained
recovery. That to me is a couple hundred thousand jobs being added for several months in a row.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay.
MIKE CAVANAGH: The other one is our own credit costs. It's not just delinquencies, it's credit costs making the
turn. In retail they've stabilized. We would like to see them turn downward.
BETSY GRASECK: Sure. Okay. Great. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisors.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORS: Hi, good morning. I wanted to ask you,
the issues of mortgage modifications have been well covered. I'm more curious about the credit card
modifications because there's no government guidelines to follow with those and what your outlook is in terms of
how much free capital is freed up by those, by actually the mortgage modifications or if the credit card
modifications are what's the main driver in improvement in early stage delinquencies or is there something else?
JAMIE DIMON: There are no credit card modification programs any different today than there were way back.
And remember, by the end of -- the last two years, we've written off close to 20% of the portfolio. You would
expect in an economic recovery, or even a stability, that delinquencies and charge-offs would come down and in
fact they are. We've written off a lot of the bad stuff
MEREDITH WHITNEY: I appreciate that. I'm just looking at the -- what you put out which is your card
modifications that doubled from 2008 to 2009 so I'm just -- if that's a -- yes, I would expect that normally, but for
the average consumer things have not gotten materially better. So I'm trying to figure out what's going on.

Page 8 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I think you're talking about the things that are in credit workout and stuff. That just tracks
charge-offs and bankruptcies and stuff like that.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That is working through the bad stuff, the challenged stuff. So as you see that charge-offs are
associated with that which is the charge-offs Jamie's talking about and you're left with a better performing portfolio
at the end of that process.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Would it be then that the high end is the most resilient with the low end -- if you could just
provide a little bit more color in terms of what specifically you see with credit cards.
JAMIE DIMON: In credit card, across income spans, FICO bands and vintages, we are seeing improvements in
delinquencies and charge-offs.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. And the main driver of that -- because obviously employment is not improving, in
your estimation.
JAMIE DIMON: I think the main driver is the fact that the people who were worst off have already charged off.
And in prior recessions, when unemployment stops going up, you start to see an improvement in those things. So
that is typical in a recession, that the rate of change of unemployment is a bigger driver of credit card
delinquencies and losses than simply absolute rates of unemployment.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Sure. Okay. And then just a follow-up on your credit card. The portfolio through WaMu
has obviously been in runoff. Where do you see that portfolio ultimately goes, not the WaMu portfolio but the
collective portfolio?
MIKE CAVANAGH: You mean in terms of -- When do you start to see it stabilize in terms of size?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the Chase portfolio, I would say which is $132 billion of it, is already -- we believe it's
basically stabilized as it is, and the WaMu portfolio, which is how much?
MIKE CAVANAGH: $20 billion.
JAMIE DIMON: $20 billion.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Going to keep going down.
JAMIE DIMON: It's going to keep going down, and I think we gave some of that number at Investor Day.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Good morning.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: If I could just ask a big picture question. Given that you're getting more confident in the
economic recovery, and a lot of banks have significantly pulled back on credit, for example, Bank of America is
now focused on just the super prime within credit card, essentially exiting prime and below, it just feels like there's
a lot of opportunity to lend as demand comes back to call it middle America and below. I'm just wondering how
you're thinking about, can you capitalize on some of that opportunity?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I think you see us rolling out in credit card new programs all the time and I think auto loans
are up and I think jumbo loans are up just a little bit, but they're up, maybe double from a year ago. And we still
have, and we broke this out at Investor Day, a large liquidation in the Home Lending portfolio because people are
no longer doing subprime, Alt-A and a bunch of products and option ARM and some of that we acquired from
WaMu. That is going to run off. But the other stuff, year-over-year, I think you actually may start to see increases.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Then on the wholesale side of the business, there's a lot of commercial real
estate that one could argue is going to change hands maybe out of CMBS, out of the regionals, into potentially
banks like yours or that you could be involved in that process. How do you think that's shaken out? Where are we
in the process of some of that stuff getting restructured and can you make some money off that?

Page 9 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Yes. I think you've seen a lot of real estate stuff get restructured when it has problems. It's kind of
a delayed lag that's going to happen over the next two years, but if there's a proper way to do real estate lending
secured with the right developers and if we get some of the upside, we'd be happy to do it.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Just separately, you talked about getting positioned for rising interest rates, but it
seems like you're doing it relatively slowly and to be fair, most banks are adding securities and you're taking them
away. Seems like it's just a little bit each quarter. So should we interpret that as you aren't too concerned that
either short, or maybe more importantly the long end, is not going to go up meaningfully any time soon?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the way to look at us today is today we were at a fairly neutral position and so I think the
disclosure we make in the 10-K shows for interest rate, the whole curve going up 100 basis points, $300 million.
But that's -- call that a very, very neutral position. So we've already gone from being short funded to neutral and
the question is are we going to change it from there. We don't have to change it at all, but my guess is we will
change it and rising long rates help earnings. Rising short rates hurt earnings. And so when you talk about
neutralizing it, you're going to neutralize one versus the other, a little complex, but we like where we are today
and over time that portfolio will probably come down. That portfolio is just one measure of interest rate exposure.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: And hasn't come down that much, that portfolio. We have changed the components of it.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And I'm sorry, just a follow-up on that. Does that mean less extension risk or what do
you mean by that?
JAMIE DIMON: I would say we are reducing some of the extension risk and reducing some of the credit exposure
in it.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Good morning.
MIKE MAYO: I'm still looking for some clarification. You had $8.3 billion of trading revenues, 30% of the firm's
revenues, and I'm not really sure why the trading revenues were so high at $8.3 billion. I guess some questions
would be, number one, how much proprietary trading was there? Second part would be how much in derivatives?
By the way, what is the derivatives legislation do to you guys? And three, how much of that might go away if rates
go up on the short end faster than you expect?
JAMIE DIMON: I would say it's very little proprietary. When you talk about pure proprietary. It is a lot of client flow.
We're not only ones who saw that. I think you're going to see other people report similarly good numbers,
somewhat driven by client flow and it's good results by our traders. They're on the ball. They're paying attention.
And rising rates don't necessarily hurt your trading results. It's not because we're taking a mismatch in trading to
see some of that. There is some benefit from the fact that spreads keep on coming in and you have the reverse
from last year, instead of losses from mortgage, legacy credit and mortgage positions, you have small gains in
those things. But -- and we agree, we think it was a very good quarter for FICC in particular and we're not going to
tell you we expect it to continue like that all year.
MIKE MAYO: Back in the old days you gave some sort of guidance for fixed income trading revenues, so if they
were $5.5 billion this quarter, any guess at what a more normal level would be?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Mike, I wouldn't say we ever -- we always talked about trading as volatile and hard to predict.
Obviously, we've got an investment in people and balance sheet and infrastructure, so you would expect -- you
expect results that are positive. This was a strong quarter. No question about it. And so likely on average runs
lower than this level, but I'm not going to give you a number on where.
MIKE MAYO: And legislation on derivatives, could that have a positive, negative or uncertain impact? What's your
thought?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, it's very hard to have a positive impact. And the devil's in the details here. When we
oversimplify, we're not doing justice to the issue. We do believe that most standardized things will go to a clearing
house and that's fine. That in of itself doesn't have a huge impact on revenues. Then there's the issue about how
Page 10 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

much of those and other trades go through an exchange in the transparency. That could or couldn't depending on
how it's designed and how much room is left to do -- have exceptions over the counter or end user exceptions
and that's not defined yet. So it will be a negative, Mike, and depending on the real detail, it could be several
hundred million to a couple billion dollars.
MIKE MAYO: Last follow-up, you've kind of addressed the fixed income trading. On the equity trading side,
implied volatility reached a two-year low in March. VICs dropped, volume increased to only 5%. So why did equity
trading do so much better?
JAMIE DIMON: Our traders did a good job. That was also cash derivatives and prime broker. So I put it all
together. I think they all had a good quarter.
MIKE MAYO: Anything by region on all your trading? Did Asia do better? Europe? US?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Across the Investment Bank, Americas did great, Asia did pretty well, Europe did pretty well,
but not as well as it had done before, if I'm recalling the numbers correctly.
MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No particular areas of weakness. It was strong pretty much everywhere.
MIKE MAYO: Thanks.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. I guess you addressed the derivative stuff. I
guess a lot of uncertainty also with respect to changes to the securitization process as the SEC voted last week
and now trying to include a 5% risk retention by the sponsors. Could you maybe talk about your thoughts about
securitization activity going forward?
JAMIE DIMON: Listen, first of all, I think in Credit Card it's going to be virtually gone because the big credit card
companies -- most of them don't need to do it at all. So some issuers will do it. And there's a lot of detail on that
5%, so we're not opposed to the concept of skin in the game. The detail is what tranches, how you do it. I think it
will make it smaller, but it won't eliminate it. That's my own guess. And the real securitization markets that you
haven't seen come back yet are the mortgage securitization markets, and I think at one point you're going to see
that. 5% will just change what kind of returns you need, what the spreads will be on the total securitization to give
the person who's going to own the 5% an equity like return on what they have to retain since it's permanent.
JASON GOLDBERG: Also I guess another area of uncertainty is comments were due from the banks for Basel at
the end of this week and I know the Feds encouraged you to comment, kind of your thoughts on that and what
you are looking to see change from the original documents.
MIKE CAVANAGH: We'll get our comments in. We talked a little bit about this at Investor Day. There's going to be
a lot of things out there that the big issue is how all those ideas that are on the table and rightly so, how in the
proposal they connect together with each other, the capital side of Basel III, the liquidity side of Basel III, together
with everything that's in play today away from Basel III. The biggest point is to just make it cohesive and
thoughtful and take time to evaluate the impact analyses that are going to be under way as well. I won't give you a
particular -- it's powerful potential changes in there that has been well commented on, but our feedback is in and
we hope to see a process whereby we get a revised set of proposals towards the end of the year, after impact
studies are done but we may not get that, we may just get a final rule. We'll see.
JAMIE DIMON: I think most people think some of the things in Basel -- no one's against proper capital and
liquidity. That we need. A lot of those things in Basel III had too much. You can't include agency and MBS as
liquid securities. 30% of deposits have to be held. There is going to be a run on 30% of deposits. You need to all
own T-bills against that. I think a lot of that's going to get modified appropriately. So the impact of Basel III will be
when it's ultimately rolled out will be substantially less than the impact that you saw on the initial Basel III
proposal. The other thing that's really important for American banks is it needs to be consistent globally. That is
an important competitive attribute. I think the regulators know that. If you have different countries do it, it would
have a dramatic effect. I also want to point out that Basel III will have a much bigger effect on non-US banks. So
the European banks, they have to look at those numbers and they will have a different reaction to it and probably
going to want to phase that in over two years to 50 to make up for the dramatic impact in the balance sheet.
JASON GOLDBERG: Thanks. And then just lastly, Mike, on the slide six on lending update, you talked about
stability and improvement and delinquencies on one bullet. The next bullet you talk to the impact of foreclosure
Page 11 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

moratorium extended timelines in OREO and modifications. Any sense to quantify the impact in terms of how
much delinquencies are being impacted by those factors?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's really the back end stuff, Jason. It just continues, the back ends have elevated levels of
delinquency rates. I think 10%-15% is what we said once upon a time, but haven't freshened that up. Remember,
it's not an income statement effect, the fact that those are getting delayed, because we're being very active in
making sure that we charge things down and realize economic loss just because of those very delays. Yet it does
create some inflation of back end delinquency rates, which is why we're so focused on those charts, early bucket
delinquencies, mid-bucket delinquencies and then what's going on in the 150 day plus where some of that stuff
sits for longer before it gets cycled out is a separate issue that has some distortions in it.
JASON GOLDBERG: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of with Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great thanks. Just following up on the home equity
discussion, it's encouraging that you're hoping and seeing signs perhaps that the losses aren't worse than you
expected and could in fact be better. It does seem, I guess from outside a little counter-intuitive. Maybe could you
expand a little bit on your comments from the Investor Day about the rundown of kind of $60ish billion of the
JPMorgan home equity portfolio. Is there anything that could make you revisit that? Some of the expectations for
your participation in the mortgage market as we go forward.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't get the question.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Well, I think -- I guess when -- at the end of the Investor Day, Jamie said inclusive of
WaMu you had $230 billion of mortgage assets that were likely to run off the books, but over $100 billion of those
were JPMorgan assets inclusive of a big chunk of the home equity portfolio. Are you still kind of committed to
running down that much of your mortgage assets? Is there anything that might change there?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think it's really a function of just we're trying to give a sense that those rundowns are real
when you consider how much of even the Chase portfolio, when you apply current underwriting standards, given
proven income as opposed to stated income, LTVs that are sensitive to forward home price expectations and
lower, all those layered in against a reasonable set of origination levels that would qualify there, given where
home prices are, is what's driving that. If those underlying factors allow us to do more volume at those kind of new
lending standards, the numbers could be different. But that's a reasonable guess on where we might find
ourselves going over many years.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning guys. A couple things. One, I suppose somewhat
simply, how should we be thinking about the tax rate going forward, given how it's been low for at least a couple
quarters running now?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I'd say -- look back on where we were running, low 30s. We were a little bit lower than that,
high 20s this quarter, on a reported basis. So a little bit of audit settlements in this quarter deflated the ratio, but
for that we would have been around in the low 30s which is a decent place to see the number.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. And when we look at the home equity loss assumptions within RFS, the sticking with the
$1.4 billion outlook versus the $1.1 billion it's kind of running now, how much of that is just conservatism, versus
are there kind of modification spillovers or something else driving you to be conservative there?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think it's more of the fact that it's a little hard right now given the inflection we're seeing to
tune up a better number to give you, than to say that's what we last said, hold the thought while we get some
more months of experience under us. But given what we're seeing in early buckets, it could be that we don't hit
those numbers. That's the best I can give you on that score, just not yet able and ready to give numbers as good
as what we had before. But we're just caveating that they're not so solid anymore, given some of the early trends.
JEFF HARTE: And that's kind of from the economic or credit statistics that you're seeing versus what you're
looking for as opposed to there being some kind of a HAMP rollover effect or something else dragging on it?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, the actual rollrates, delinquencies, charge-offs, by vintage, look a little better. But add to
that the uncertainty around housing, government programs, new foreclosures, the economy, we're being cautious.
Page 12 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JEFF HARTE: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning. Quick question on what will happen in a rising
rate environment. The Fed continues to keep rates low, but the long end keeps creeping up here and making a
run at 4. Can you just give me some idea how you look at NIM in a rising rate environment, how you think your
core funding is going to trend, whether you expect an extraordinary level of deposit pricing competition, et cetera.
JAMIE DIMON: Nancy, this is -- it's hard to say because you're talking about something that really relates almost
more to competition than anything else. I believe that if you have a rising rate environment, short rates going up
100, 200 basis points, long rates going up 100, 200 basis points, but it's because of a healthy economy,
everything will be fine. If you have stag-inflation, rates going up, you don't have a healthy economy, that's
probably the worst situation for a bank. And in and of itself, it's not the interest rate exposure, it's the other things
that are going to drive that, including as you pointed out, competition.
NANCY BUSH: Any thoughts about -- what you're -- obviously, we've been in an extraordinarily liquid
environment here and deposits have been rising as a result. Any thoughts about what we will see in the real core
deposit growth or lack thereof as rates start to rise? And whether you see any -- you will see any need this time
around, because we are coming off such a low rate base, to really give consumers more of the rise than you
might have otherwise?
JAMIE DIMON: When we talk about interest rate exposures, we already built into that our assumptions about how
much a rate rises you pass on to consumers. So we already assumed that and I'd say we're pretty aggressive
assuming that you have to pass on quite a bit of it, at least early on in an interest rate cycle. And on the consumer
side, you look at consumers, they have a lot of excess cash. If you talk to our economists. A lot of that's also in
money market funds. It's a little bit different in deposit accounts. And -- but we're going to compete for our clients
business like everybody else and we're assuming that it will be competitive going forward.
NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. Just a quick question I guess for Mike. I'm not sure if
you're able to break this down, but we saw the net interest margin expand from 302 to 332. I'm assuming most of
that came from FAS 166/167 as well as probably what went on with trade-in and the Corporate securities
portfolio. Is there a way to indicate the portion of that that might have been related to the core lending and deposit
business?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I'd say it was about stable. No material action in that, nor looking ahead would I expect there
would necessarily be when you put aside the deliberate stuff we're doing in the investment portfolio or just the
outcome of what's going on in the trading businesses.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thanks. And then just as a quick follow-up, the $2.3 billion for the litigation reserve, I know
you indicated that you don't want to talk in more detail about that, but should we consider that pretty much a
one-time item and at least for now the expectation would be that that would not exist in future quarters?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Well, since it's going to take years to sort all this stuff out, we took an estimate now and I
think it would be a while before we had any reason to make any changes to that.
JAMIE DIMON: We don't expect to have to make any, but you never know when it comes to these items.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you. That was it.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi, good morning. Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Do you have any thoughts on the pipeline in the Investment Bank? Is it up? Down?
JAMIE DIMON: It looks fine. We point out many times before, pipelines are notoriously bad. Things go away and
things come in and the debt market, sometimes the pipeline is not there at there because deals get done very
quickly, but it looks healthy.

Page 13 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMES MITCHELL: Okay, fair enough. Any more clarity on the impact of the bonus tax in the second quarter. Is it
something you think could be quite material, you aren't mentioning because it is on the small side. How should we
think about it?
MIKE CAVANAGH: The only point I want to make is remember, it may be material and if it does happen it's likely
to be a second quarter accounting event. That's the only point I really want to make at this stage.
JAMES MITCHELL: No specifics?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's a one off, if it happens, even if it is material.
JAMIE DIMON: So the government in the UK says.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right. One last question. You've put out estimates for the impact of lower overdraft fees, the
Card Act, et cetera, the $500 million range for each the retail business and the Card business. Obviously, there's
some impact in the first quarter. Can you give us some percentages around that? Are we 50% of the way there?
Are we 25% of the way there? How should we think about -JAMIE DIMON: Card is almost 100%. Retail's 50%.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay, great. That's all I've got. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Good morning. Just a quick question on the slide deck in the
Appendix. Obviously, early stage delinquencies and home equity and prime mortgage are coming down or
flattening in the case of prime mortgage. Can you give us an update as to how the California and Florida markets
are performing in the early stage delinquency?
JAMIE DIMON: I should have said this before. Across vintages, FICO scores, LTVs, regions, states, we're seeing
pretty much improvement. It's very broad-based.
MATT BURNELL: Great. And then a bigger picture question. What do you think the effects might be on the
markets and specifically JPMorgan's trading, if the rating agencies come through with the ratings downgrades on
some of your competitors in light of potential regulatory changes?
JAMIE DIMON: I would put it in the not much category.
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think that's right. My bet would be it's going to take some time for that to actually manifest
itself. But we'll see.
MATT BURNELL: Great. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer & Company.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & COMPANY: I noticed that even excluding on your C&I loans
you had an uptick this quarter for the first time in a long time, and I wonder is that -- excluding the effects of FAS
167? Is that indicative of customers beginning to play some offense in your opinion and could we actually have
seen the bottom in Corporate loan demand?
MIKE CAVANAGH: We may be seeing -- Jamie hit it earlier. What's going on in the Investment Bank is access is
there, FAS 167 drove the change in that business net of market activities. I'd say the real litmus test for wholesale
would be more your middle market business. There's it's starting to stabilize, but still down a touch from last
quarter.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Thank you. That's all.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Ron Mandle with GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Thanks. Most of my questions have been asked. I guess the only thing I was
wondering at this point was whether in your caution on home equity charge-offs there's still some risk to higher
charge-offs from first mortgages being modified and then the seconds being written off because that still seems to
be such a hot button for the legislators and also for investors in first mortgages.
Page 14 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I will put that in the -- first of all, we're already doing that a little bit. We're already modifying
seconds and not all seconds have firsts and not all seconds are in trouble, so you've really got to parse through
all that, but I will put that as an issue of uncertainty out there that remains, yes. We're also doing the 2MP
program like most other banks.
RON MANDLE: Any way of quantifying what the impact of that program and the others might be on the
charge-offs?
MIKE CAVANAGH: The devil's in the details of how they're done. Not really. Presumably they'll be done in a
thoughtful way, which as Jamie said, we're already doing a lot of this stuff on a loan by loan basis in a way that's
appropriate and making changes in adjustments and in answer to Guy's questions earlier, we factor all that in to
how we think about future charge off's and therefore reserving. We have a view. It's just a question of whether the
programs come in with something that's blanket or a less thoughtful approach than we think makes sense.
RON MANDLE: It just seems bizarre in some cases where people have stopped paying on their first, still paying
on their seconds. Seem like those types of loan events have no value and will eventually be written off even if
they're current now.
JAMIE DIMON: That statement, if that were true in some cases, that would be true -- your assumptions are all
true, your conclusion would be true. That's not always the case. There's a lot of different reasons why people are
doing things.
RON MANDLE: Okay. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Carole Berger with Soleil Securities.
CAROLE BERGER, ANALYST, SOLEIL SECURITIES: Good morning. I have a non-earnings question for Jamie.
Yesterday, Kerry Killinger testified before a Congressional committee and essentially said that the only reason
WaMu was put out of business was because of they said they didn't belong to the club and given the fact that
you've just added to reserves for the impaired portfolio, I'd like your comments on to whether or not WaMu
probably would have failed, regardless of the way it was handled.
JAMIE DIMON: Look, you've got to ask the regulators. We had nothing to do with the decisions that were made
around declaring them insolvent and stuff like that. Obviously they were having a deposit outflow. As you
remember, when we bought the Company, we put up $40 billion for reserves.
MIKE CAVANAGH: We marked down $30 billion, we raised $11.5 billion the next day to replenish the capital that
was needed to execute that and -JAMIE DIMON: Since then, the world's been worse, not better. We put up slightly additional reserves in certain
different categories. Plus I'm unaware of any club to tell you the truth.
MIKE CAVANAGH: I'm not aware if there was any bidder other than ourselves.
JAMIE DIMON: I was flying back from China. I didn't see the testimony.
CAROLE BERGER: It was amusing. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Our next question will come from the line of Brad Ball with Ladenburg.
BRAD BALL, ANALYST, LADENBURG THALMANN & COMPANY: Thanks. I wonder if you could add some color
on credit card sales volume trends up 7% year-over-year in the Chase Cards. Any comment on trends
intra-quarter? Also, where is the spending being done? What segment? And do you think it's sustainable at these
levels or is this just growing off a relatively lower year-over-year comp?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's definitely the latter, growing off lower year-over-year comps. As you go back to some of
Gordon's Investor Day slides, the more affluent the segment, the earlier and the greater magnitude of sales
pick-up. And we think as it relates to the market broadly, our share of sales is picking up related to all the work
that the business is doing with the new products and rewards programs and partners programs we have and then
there's some seasonality obviously when you go from the first versus the fourth, a big spending season in the
fourth quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: What I saw is that consumer spend and incomes are kind of back to where they were before all
this crisis and you've seen retail sales up, you've seen restaurant sales up, you've seen airplane sales up, you've
Page 15 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

seen car sales up. That's the fact. And you could guess as well as we can guess whether it's going to continue or
not.
BRAD BALL: But maybe a positive -JAMIE DIMON: We even see luxury sales up.
BRAD BALL: Right. Right. So it's not just -- not just non-discretionary, it's actually some discretionary categories.
JAMIE DIMON: I always question that discretionary breakout. We really dig into it, it's hard to determine some of
that. Pick out specific luxury items and then travel, vacation type travel, those are up. And they are up even
stronger than the aggregates if I remember correctly.
BRAD BALL: And then a follow-up clarification. If in your response to the question about the Card act, I think Mike
indicated that some of the major provisions aren't implemented until August, which we know, so we don't know
the impact of those, but then later Jamie responded by saying that 100% was in the first quarter number. I'm
confused.
MIKE CAVANAGH: 100% of everything that we know of. There's a straggling piece or two that the final outcomes
of what the legislation would be is not yet there.
JAMIE DIMON: Which will probably cost us another $300 million, $400 million, or $500 million. We don't know the
real number yet. Just assume it's going to cost something.
BRAD BALL: The additional provisions that will be implemented August 22nd will cost between $300 million and
$500 million roughly?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm throwing out a number, but yes.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Purely a guess on my boss's part.
BRAD BALL: Just to be clear again, I'm sorry. In the first quarter net loss of $300 million or so, there was a Card
act cost, both in terms of revenue and expenses?
JAMIE DIMON: Say it again.
BRAD BALL: So just to be clear -MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, there was.
BRAD BALL: Okay. And the magnitude of that on a run rate basis is consistent with what your prior guidance had
been?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, more or less.
BRAD BALL: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: Remember, we always said this, that's static analysis. That's saying if you just kind of run it
through. People are changing how they price for cards, how they're using cards. That much of the static analysis
will be what it ultimately costs the Company three years from now.
BRAD BALL: Actually, just reminded myself, one more question. Is what you said about the consumer spending
trend, is that what drove the comment Mike made about small business starting to pick up a bit? I guess small
business on the borrowing side is what you implied.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's right.
JAMIE DIMON: It's another good sign. Small business loans are up pretty substantially.
BRAD BALL: Got it. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Our final question will come from the line of Richard Bove with Rochdale Securities.
RICHARD BOVE, ANALYST, ROCHDALE SECURITIES: Good morning. The consolidation of the VIEs raises
two questions. One is concerning your equity account. I understand that you took on more liabilities than assets
Page 16 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

and, therefore, you reduced your equity. But why did you reduce retained earnings? Why did retained earnings go
down by $1.4 billion?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Really the change was bringing on $88 billion worth of assets which was largely Credit Card
and then you had major change, the equity account was putting up loan loss reserves related to those Card
assets.
RICHARD BOVE: That gets to the second question.
JAMIE DIMON: But if you look at the quarter, you've got earnings minus the after tax effect of that $7 billion of
reserves, plus OCI, plus a whole bunch of other stuff.
MIKE CAVANAGH: A lot of changes in the quarter. The FAS 166/167 was about $4.5 billion after tax negative to
the equity account. All driven by the credit card side which was reserves.
RICHARD BOVE: I can understand why the equity account went down by $4.5 billion. I was surprised to see it
show up in retained earnings. The other question relates to the allowance for loan losses, the $7.4 billion that was
added to reserves. Why didn't that go through the income statement?
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's what the accounting pronouncements were on how to handle 166/167. That's a
guidance on how all banks will handle that one.
RICHARD BOVE: Did that -- was that the reason that net charge-offs were higher than the provision that did go
through? In other words, the provision was lower than net charge-offs and I'm wondering if it's because -MIKE CAVANAGH: No, no, no independent of that. The provision less than charge-offs was separately, the
release of the billion dollars of reserves in credit card given the improving credit trends, delinquencies and
rollrates.
RICHARD BOVE: In other words the charge-off number shouldn't be used as an indicator in the second or third
quarter as to what might happen to the provision?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Everything you saw in the Card segment about charge-off rate and the guidance we talked
about, none of that is affected by 166/167.
RICHARD BOVE: Okay. Thanks a lot.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Okay. Well thanks, everybody. Look forward to next quarter. Bye.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may all disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Page 17 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Document FNDW000020100428e64e000md

Page 18 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

