Q1 2011 JPMorgan Chase & CoEarnings Conference Call - Final
11,915 words
13 April 2011
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; welcome to JPMorgan Chase's first-quarter 2011 earnings
call. This call is being recorded. Your lines will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live to the
presentation. Please stand by. At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and
CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Doug Braunstein. Mr. Braunstein, please go ahead.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Thanks, operator, it's Doug here. I'm going to
be taking you through the earnings presentation; it's available on our website, as you know. We'll take questions
after walking through the presentation and with that let's turn to page 1.
For the quarter we generated net income of $5.6 billion, $1.28 a share, and that was on revenue of $25.8 billion.
As we've done historically, we're highlighting several significant items in the quarter right up front; I'm going to try
and cover them in some detail here, but they are included in the numbers for the lines of business.
First item is a $0.29 per share increase in earnings and that comes from a reduction in the credit card services
allowance for loan losses. I'll talk you through the specifics of net charge-offs and our delinquency rates when we
get to credit card later on.
Second item is a $0.16 per share decrease in earnings, that's from a fair value adjustment to our MSR servicing
asset. And this adjustment really represents the impact of the actual and/or anticipated increases in servicing
costs, including the compliance with our anticipated requirements that are going to be imposed through the OCC
and Fed through a consent order that we anticipate receiving later today.
The third item is a $0.10 per share decrease in earnings and expected cost for foreclosure-related matters and
these costs are really our best current estimate for affidavit-related delays as well as certain legal expense. We
don't view these costs as run-rate expense, but, to be clear, there could be further costs around this matter before
we're finished.
We ended the quarter with Tier 1 common of $120 billion, strong Basel I and Basel III ratios of 10% and 7.3%
respectively, you see those on the page; an increase of about 20 basis points quarter over quarter. You'll also see
on the next page ROE of 13%, ROTCE of 18%, also strong results. And broadly speaking, we had solid
performance across our businesses, but I'll dive into those.
I've covered all the items on page 2, so if you skip to page 3 we'll start talking about the Investment Bank. Circled
net income here on the page of $2.4 billion, that's on revenue of $8.2 billion. Investment Banking fees in the
quarter were $1.8 billion, up 23% year on year. We continue to be ranked number one, but it remains a very
highly competitive market. Results this quarter reflect record debt underwriting fees, and if you go to page 19 you
can see our league table results.
Markets revenue this quarter of $6.6 billion -- that really reflects very strong client-based revenue and it was
generated in part through the volatility that we experienced in the first quarter in the markets and us at helping our
clients manage through that volatility. While these numbers are slightly down from a record first quarter 2010, still
very strong results.

Page 1 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

$5.2 billion of revenue you see on the page in Fixed Income. There was strong performance across all of our
asset classes there -- rates, FX, credit, securitized products and strong performance in commodities. $1.4 billion
in revenue in Equities this quarter and that also represented strong performance across cash, derivatives and
prime services.
DVA for the quarter relates to the structured notes both in Fixed Income and Equities, was not a material number,
was a positive $20 million, and it really didn't change quarter-on-quarter performance. You see here CPG
reported a revenue loss of $190 million and, just a reminder, there are three items in that number.
Typically NII and fees on retained loans are going to be about $200 million plus or minus on a quarter, and then
you have the market impact of hedges on the loan book which were negative this quarter and the impact of CVA
and DVA which were also negative in the quarter and that led to the result.
Credit costs $429 million benefit and that really reflects a reduction in loan-loss allowances largely related to loan
sales and net repayments. And just a reminder again, here is where you approach a more normalized credit
environment; this item is going to return to being an expense item on an ongoing basis.
Expense in the quarter you see were $5 billion, up 4% year on year, that's really due to higher
performance-based compensation and that's partially been offset by lower non-comp expense. Comp to revenue
ratio, you'll see on the page, is 40% this quarter. And just a reminder, it's going to vary slightly quarter on quarter
based on business mix. But we continue to expect our full-year guidance to be consistent with what we shared
with you at the end of the fourth quarter which is 35% to 40%.
One final note here, you see the loan balances in the Investment Bank up 2% modestly, and you'll see that uptick
to the extent that we continue to have active participation in the Investment Banking market, particularly the
strategic advisory business, and you'll see that in an uptick in our loan balances.
With that I'll turn to page 4, RFS. Just a moment on this page; this is a consolidated view. RFS for the quarter was
$208 million on $6.3 billion worth of revenue and let me jump into the details really on page 5.
At the top Retail Banking had solid performance -- net income of a little under $900 million on revenue of $4.4
billion. Revenue was up modestly year over year and that was net of an impact of lower deposit-related fees.
There were some key drivers on the prior page; I'd highlight deposit growth of 4% year over year; investment
sales revenue up 11%; we built 33 branches in the quarter.
Expense in the quarter was up 9% year over year and that's really the continuing theme of investment. Our
branch builds, our sales force build out; we're up a little under 4,000 sales force year over year in the branches.
Mortgage Banking, Auto and Other Consumer Lending -- there was a net loss of $937 million here on revenue of
a little under $700 million. And the results here were impacted both on the revenue line and the expense line by
the two significant items that I covered on the first page. I'm not going to talk about those.
Revenue of $1.9 billion excluding the MSR risk management results really reflects $36 billion in mortgage loan
originations this quarter, higher volumes, wider margins in the first quarter of last year, but lower volumes and
lower margins than the fourth quarter of last year. Revenue here also reflected solid performance in the quarter
for our auto business.
The other number that's included in that $1.9 billion you'll see is repurchase losses of $420 million for the quarter,
that's a contra revenue item. The repurchase losses here are really slightly above the trend line this quarter and
it's primarily related to some refinement of certain of our repurchase estimates. But I would say going forward we
continue to expect repurchase losses to be on a quarterly run rate consistent with our $1.2 billion plus or minus
for the year.
I've covered really the significant issues in MSR risk and expense and other than those highlighted issues the
other line items for costs and servicing really reflect our production and volumes in the quarter. With that I really
want to turn our attention on page 6 to the Real Estate Portfolios, talk -- briefly on this page.
Net income loss of $162 million, that's on revenue of $1.2 billion, that's down a little under $400 million year over
year. The lower revenue number is really a decline in NII and it's a result of the portfolio run off; balances declined
year over year a little under $32 billion, $7.5 billion quarter on quarter and we told you about that. Consistent with
that you'd expect full year NII to be down around $700 million. NII was also down on some spread compression.
On the credit side, what I'd like to do is go through the details on page 7. So if you turn to page 7 in the home
lending update, you see circled net charge-offs on this page for the quarter were $1.1 billion, they're modestly
Page 2 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

improved from our prior quarter, but they're certainly in line with the delinquency trends that we saw in Q3 and
Q4.
If you exclude the one-time adjustment that we talked about in the fourth quarter, you look at Home Equity and
Subprime net charge-offs are relatively flat and you see the Prime mortgage net charge-offs actually improved
quarter on quarter. And then if you took a look at that graph we put on page 16 in the appendix, what you'll see is
delinquency rates have really declined modestly across all of our portfolios and, all other things being equal, that
should have a positive impact two quarters out on our future charge-offs.
The other comments I'd make on this page, as you'll see, we didn't make any changes at all to our reserves in
either our non-credit impaired or our purchased credit-impaired portfolio in the quarter. And we continue, given
some of the uncertainties in the market, to maintain our net charge-off guidance of $1.2 billion plus or minus in the
quarter.
Page 8, let's shift focus to Card Services. Circled net income on this page was $1.3 billion; revenue of
approximately $4 billion; credit costs, really the focus in this quarter, they were down significantly to $226 million.
And if you look first at the bottom two circled numbers on the page you see 6.20% is the charge-off rate for our
Chase portfolios; that's an improvement of 88 basis points quarter on quarter that follows a 98 basis point
improvement from Q3 to Q4.
And then you see the 30 plus day delinquencies declined to 3.25% in this quarter, that's down 41 basis points
quarter on quarter and we'd expect to see modest improvement there in the second quarter. The result of that
improvement is the reduction in our future estimated losses and as a result of that the $2 billion pre-tax loan loss
reserve relief that I covered on page 1.
Just one other moment here on our guidance for the second quarter, we'd expect the charge-off rate for the
Chase portfolio to be 5.5% plus or minus and we do hope there's some modest upside in the ultimate rate for the
second quarter.
On the revenue line of $4 billion, it's down 10% year on year, 6% quarter on quarter. And again, there's a
consistent theme here on revenue, that lower revenue is driven by $23 billion lower average balances outstanding
year over year. And also we had a 100% run rate impact for the Card Act in this quarter relative to the first quarter
of last year.
Positive note here -- you look at sales volumes, Chase volume was up 12% year over year, a little over $75 billion
of spend from Chase cards. And as I mentioned last quarter, we really believe we continue to outpace the
industry sales growth data and that reflects itself ultimately in improved market share. Which means when
customers are going to stores they're taking out their Chase cards more often than any other. It also does reflect
some underlying positive sales trends for consumers in general.
One other quick note before I move on. On January 1 you'll see on this page and in the supplement we
transferred our Commercial Card business from TSS to Card Services, modest increase in revenue, increase in
loan balances and actually a reduction in margin as a result of all of that.
Page 9, Commercial Bank. You see circled net income of $546 million, that's on revenue of $1.5 billion. Revenue
is up 7% year on year, that's a function of growth in loan balances, growth in liability balances, actually some
wider spreads year-over-year, higher Investment Banking fees year over year, and that's offset by continued
spread compression in our deposit taking businesses.
Credit costs in the quarter $47 million, you see that on the middle of the page; that really reflects
stable-to-improving credit trends in this business. Losses really continue to be weighted towards our Real Estate
Portfolio, but the losses in Real Estate also declined in the quarter. And again, I'd just caution that we will expect
this portfolio over time to trend towards the normal through-the-cycle net charge-off rate of about 50 basis points
that we talked about at Investor Day.
Circled EOP loan balances you see on the page of $100.2 billion, that's up modestly again this quarter, but I want
to dig a little deeper. Loan volumes for the C&I portfolio have increased now for four consecutive quarters.
Middle-market loan balances, the average balances are up $4.3 billion or 13% year over year, which is quite
substantial. And balances have been up now for 12 consecutive months.
And while we know that our loan growth in that area is a mix of market share gains and demand, this type of trend
speaks more in part to what we believe is increasing demand in the space. Utilization rates in the first quarter
Page 3 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

have begun also to show the first signs of modest improvement and it's the first time we've seen uptick in several
quarters there.
And one last comment -- you see the growth in liability balances, 17% year-over-year growth; we've got $156
billion of balances. And clients continue to generate cash and we hold that cash for them and I think that speaks,
again, to the quality of the customer base.
Treasury and Security Services on page 10, circled net income of $316 million in the quarter, that's up 13%
year-on-year, 23% quarter on quarter. Revenue of $1.8 billion, that's up 5% year on year. And if you dive into
WSS, revenue was up 9%, that's really driven by net inflows and higher market values of assets under custody.
You see the other circled number on this page, $16.6 trillion of assets under custody, that's a record number.
TS revenue was up 1%, but if you exclude the move of Commercial Card to Card Services, revenue was actually
up 7% in the quarter. And you'll see in our supplement, the build out, as we've talked about, of our international
businesses, it's really reflected in trade loan balances -- those are $25.5 billion in the quarter, that's up 86%
year-over-year, it's up 21% quarter on quarter and we hope to continue to grow that business.
Expense continues to be up 4% year-on-year and that is a function of the discussion we've talked about in terms
of investment, particularly around international. Although this quarter it was offset by that transfer out of the
Commercial Card business.
And then one other quick item here -- you see this credit allocation income expense, the details are in the
footnote, but we're basically trying to capture the sharing of the economics associated with the Corporate bank
credit book. That's actually a net benefit this quarter of $27 million. And this line item is going to be a little more
volatile than what we've done historically, which is charge through the credit cycle charge to Treasury and
Security Services.
Page 11, Asset Management. You see circled net income of $466 million in the quarter, that's up 19%
year-on-year. Circled revenue of $2.4 billion, that's up 13% year-on-year. And revenue growth was really based
on a few factors -- we continue to have strong net inflows into products with higher margins; record asset under
management inflows actually into long-term products this quarter of $27 billion, that's the eighth consecutive
quarter of long-term flows. And that was offset by outflows in liquidity products of about $9 billion.
We also had the benefit of higher market levels this quarter. And on a quarter-on-quarter basis lower mortgage
production but higher year-over-year. Expense growth, the same theme we've talked about, up 15%, largely
reflecting higher headcount. We've added a little over 1,100 people to our front office in the last year.
Page 11 -- I'm sorry, page 12 now, Corporate and Private Equity. You see the top number, $383 million worth of
net income from Private Equity in the quarter, that's really reflecting gains in the number of realizations, also
improvements in the market value and our positions in the quarter. And you just remember here, financial results
are going to vary based on the timing of those realizations, market valuations, but you should expect to see an
appropriate return over time for this portfolio.
Corporate net income reported $339 million. This line item is also going to be lumpy, but over time trending to
$300 million plus or minus. CIO treasury will contribute to that, it's consistent with the guidance that we gave you
this quarter, but it's going to be volatile based on timing of our investments and gains in our positioning. As you'll
see when we release our Q, we continue to be positioned with the portfolio to take advantage of a rising rate
environment and that's reflected in our NII in this quarter.
Also, there are going to be a number of one-time items in the quarter. This quarter we had litigation expense of
$350 million in Corporate.
Page 13, Fortress balance sheet. I think I've really covered most of the points on this slide. What I will remind
everybody that hasn't focused on it is we did, as you know, increase our annual dividend to $1 a share up from
$0.20 a share, and we also authorized a $15 billion multi-year share repurchase program, $8 billion of which we
can repurchase in 2011.
Page 14 is the outlook page. I think I've covered all of this in the discussion. And so what I'd like to do, operator,
is open up the line and have Jamie and I available to answer questions.
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Guy Moszkowski, Bank of America.
Page 4 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Good morning. Just a quick question on the Investment
Bank first of all. Obviously revenue was very strong relative to I think probably what a lot of people might have
expected. But you had a little bit of negative operating leverage in that your expense moved up more than your
revenue. And that revenue was down ever so slightly. And your comp ratio in particular was 40% as an accrual I
guess for this quarter versus 35% a year ago. Can you give us a little color? Is that a mix shift? Is that you're
trying to be a little bit more conservative on bonus accruals? What's driving that?
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: A little of all -- each.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And to the extent that it is a mix shift, can you describe it to us a little bit?
JAMIE DIMON: It's just more client-related business. We accrue higher client-related business.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. And there has been some concern I think over the last few months in the
marketplace that large dealers like yourselves, given some of the uncertainty about capital cost, Basel III, etc., are
a little bit reluctant to put long tail derivative positions on. Is that being reflected at all in your results and might
that have something to do with the decline in the margin?
JAMIE DIMON: No. So in terms of the capital and the risk weighted assets already represent in effect Basel very
close to -- or at least our best estimates of Basel III. And while it's possible some people are doing less long tail
derivative stuff, I would not put it in a material category. This is a lot of client volume, a lot of client flow, lot of
activity.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks for that. Your balance sheet shows a really significant increase in your deposits
both year-over-year and sequentially, $65 billion to $70 billion. Can you give us a sense for what the big drivers
are there?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I'll answer this question, but then you've got to let someone else ask a question, okay, Guy?
So first of all, if you look at deposits, okay, Middle-Market -- I mean, Commercial Bank deposits are way up, TSS
deposits are way up, Private Bank deposits are way up, Retail deposits are up. Clients have a lot of money and
they're investing a lot and, as you know, we keep the benefit. There's a lot of money washed around the world
and obviously we're a beneficiary of some of that. You can see it by business if you go in deeper to the
supplement.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, I'll step aside, thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: Thanks, Guy.
OPERATOR: Jason Goldberg, Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you, good morning. I respect how you gave the
credit card guidance of improved losses going down I guess to 5.5% annual rate, yet you're still carrying a 7.25%
reserve. I guess ultimately where should we see that number go to and I guess how much does it lag the
improvement in NCOs?
JAMIE DIMON: The reserve -- look, obviously the reserves are coming down over time precisely because of what
you mentioned. The reserves are based on a forward-looking view of charge-offs. As charge-offs come down the
reserve will come down. And eventually they'll be the same. If you're reserving effectively for 12 months of losses
and things are steady eventually they'll be the same. A normalized charge-off ratio will eventually be 4.5%, that's
through-the-cycle, to be obviously lower than that or higher than that.
JASON GOLDBERG: Got it. And then, Doug, on just one of the comments you made when going through the first
of the one-time items, you mentioned that some of those foreclosure costs should continue. With respect to the
MSR adjustment is that I guess one-time and we shouldn't expect any other change go forward once we get this
consent order?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, Jason. The $1.1 billion is both our existing and our anticipated cost, right? That's the
net present value of those changes. And that's a one-time item. That's not to say the MSR asset we're going to
constantly revalue. The $650 million, we don't believe it is a run rate item, but what I did say is there can be
clearly be further costs associated with this -- the foreclosure and affidavit issues before we're finished.
JAMIE DIMON: And it does not include any related penalties.

Page 5 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JASON GOLDBERG: Right. Okay and then just lastly, in looking at -- you gave the Basel I and Basel III Tier 1
common ratios, and it looks like the spread between the risk weighted assets on both those numbers is up $400
billion this quarter, but it was also about $400 billion in the year-ago quarter. I guess through mitigation and the
like would we expect I guess a further reduction or for that spread to narrow? Or how should we think about it in
terms of it doesn't look like there's been much mitigation on the RWAs for Basel III.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, because a lot of things are running through RWA, but I think what we said last time is that
mitigation -- most of which, not all of which, most of which will happen by the end of this year was $[150] billion of
risk weighted assets?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: (Multiple speakers), Yes. And I would say it's towards, in fairness, Jason, you'd expect to
see more of that towards the back end of the year as we get closer to the sort of market-based market risk rules.
JAMIE DIMON: And that's all things being equal, which they're not.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Right. We're going to be very -- look, we've got ample capital and we're going to be very
careful -- to the extent that we choose to mitigate it's got to make sense for us over the long term as an economic
matter.
JAMIE DIMON: We're not going to do it and lose money.
JASON GOLDBERG: Makes sense. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Yes, good morning. A question really regarding capital again, you talk in
the release about managing, at least in the near-term, to perhaps a 9% Basel I based Tier 1 common equity ratio
versus your 10% level currently. And obviously the Basel III base ratio of 7.3% continues to build. So I'm sort of
wondering if you can give perspective on what that means in terms of how you're thinking about driving excess
capital into buybacks each quarter.
It looks like you could literally drive all of your retained earnings into buybacks and still be very adequately
capitalized. Are you thinking that you could do that much? If you're not willing to buy back that aggressively, how
else would you consider soaking up excess capital or would you indeed let those ratios just continue to build?
Just trying to get some perspective because (multiple speakers) capital seems to --.
JAMIE DIMON: We can only buy back $8 billion of stock according to the guidelines from the Fed. We are going
to buy back, regardless of price, $3 billion which is what we issue -- or approximately what we issue every year
for stock-related compensation. And the other part is discretionary, we're not going to automatically do it. It will be
price-sensitive and if we build up excess capital so be it.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: You know, Ed, the other thing I'd just remind you, we've got a lot of growth opportunities
and we're really actually focused on investing that excess capital in those growth opportunities and that's where
our priority is going to be.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay, but I guess --.
JAMIE DIMON: You also know the final Basel III guidelines we have to hold to. I mean, we think 7% is plenty, but
that may not be the final guideline.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay, so I guess the answer is you're really to let those ratios continue to build in the near term?
JAMIE DIMON: I would assume that's going to happen because there's almost very little we can do to stop it.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Nomura.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Hi, there. Doug, just a quickie on the average rates on the balance
sheet on page 6. You're looking at the trading assets and it went up like 45 basis points -- a pretty big jump on a
one quarter basis. Is that just duration extension on the mortgage assets or hedging related?
JAMIE DIMON: (Multiple speakers).
Page 6 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: (Multiple speakers) Investment banking or the whole company? Is it just the whole
company?
GLENN SCHORR: Whole company, whole company.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, I think that's really just a function of some better cost in dollar roll financing, but I'll get
back to you specifically on it.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't (inaudible).
GLENN SCHORR: No problem. And sometimes this next one is just an allocation thing, but leverage at the IB, if
you just look at average assets to the equity allocated is creeping up a little bit. And I just didn't know if the high
teens to 20 range is an okay resting range, if regulators have any commentary on that lately?
JAMIE DIMON: I think we said the $40 billion anticipates the IB being at 8%; we're assuming some mitigation
here in the IB kind of by the end of the year on a stand-alone basis. So -- and remember, that balance sheet of
$250 billion or so was very, very short-term liquid stuff. So the adjusted asset is like [600] and the equity is 40.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay, that's cool. Last one is, Jamie, you made your points well in your shareholder letter on
why the 7% is enough and your thoughts around the SIFI buffer. But I guess my question is with Switzerland
going at 10 plus and now the UK coming out this week at 10 plus, how much if any impact do those markets have
on -- to your understanding, with our regulators? And do our regulators take into account say risk weighted assets
to tangible assets or total assets or bank assets, the GDP, other metrics that might not make this an
apples-to-apples comparison?
JAMIE DIMON: So I think the baseline Basel stuff is attempting to be a global agreement to have a level playing
field for everybody. There are some flaws with that, which are also in my letter, because there are different laws
now in the United States regarding derivatives, Volcker, the uses of preferred dividends, etc. But I think it's an
attempt by regulators to have a global agreement.
Each country is going to set its own what they call the SIFI or global SIFI surcharge. So each country can do
something in addition to the 7%, but I personally don't think that because the UK and Switzerland do it that the
United States should feel like it has to do it. I mean each country is a slightly different thing. In Switzerland, their
bank is dwarfed at the size of their economy. That's not true here. I also have a chart in my show letter about that.
So there are other reasons why other countries might go to higher ratios.
GLENN SCHORR: Do you have any idea of timing?
JAMIE DIMON: The United States should do what's good for the United States, not what's good for Europe.
GLENN SCHORR: Understood. Do you have any idea on timing, Jamie?
JAMIE DIMON: I believe we'll get more guidance maybe sometime late this summer.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Keep fighting the fight.
OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Two questions. One just on a follow-up on the SIFI
question. Does the size of the SIFI charge change how you think about allocating capital or how you would think
about doing M&A?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, honestly, if it is just a little bit more, no. If it is a lot more, probably. And we are going to
have to wait and see. I also think it is very important, after you think about it a little bit, the market is going to price
things. Just because a bank holds 10% doesn't mean the market is going to affect use 10% to price something.
So your competitive market is going to be based upon something different. So it's hard to figure out exactly what
that means. My attitude would be we'd run the businesses at a 7% or 8% Basel III and hold the excess at
Corporate.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then on a separate question just on mortgage. There is some discussion from the
FHFA on changing the servicing fees for the conventional Fannie/Freddie loans. Can you just give us a sense as
to how you are thinking about how that would impact your business model and what you would do differently if
this fee change were to occur?
Page 7 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, no, I actually think there is an intelligent thought about having it different for performing
versus defaulted loans. It is far more expensive to default a loan. So the devil is in the detail, but it's a good
thought, a good concept and in general, it would eventually reduce the size of the MSR, which would be fine with
us too.
BETSY GRASECK: But you've been underinvested in mortgage relative to your peers. I mean would you be
looking to take more share of this were to go through?
JAMIE DIMON: It really depends how the whole mortgage business turns out. I mean we've really got to wait and
see what the future liabilities are for future mortgage origination, etc. before you decide to do something like that.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then lastly on QRM and other risk retention proposals that came out a couple
weeks ago?
JAMIE DIMON: We think the skin-in-the-game concept is a good idea. We think that it would be fine with us. It
has a lot of consequences, but we would be fine with that. And the QRM; either way it can work as long it is all
properly designed. So we don't really have an ax in this fight about how it is going to take place, but we just hope
that however it takes place is really well thought through and we would be happy to work with people to help to try
to make sure that is done.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. It does become more balance sheet intensive though, right?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but balance sheet intensive wouldn't bother us if they're good assets.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, I'm trying to get a handle on what might be a
normalized expense run rate relative to the $6 billion base this quarter. You pointed to the $650 million provision,
Doug, for foreclosure issues and I think you said $350 million for litigation expense this quarter.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: John, that was only in Corporate.
JOHN MCDONALD: Just in Corporate, okay. Was there litigation expense elsewhere that you --?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, we'll have that across all the businesses.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, but that's the only one you highlighted, correct?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: And then maybe just broader, Jamie or Doug, you could give some thoughts about where
expense is cyclically elevated today throughout the Company and might come down over time as we start to think
about a normalized expense base is relative to what we see today?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, we really do this by business, but you had a chart, Doug, that you showed me that showed
--. In fact, if you look at IB comp, back that out and you look at the overhead --.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Overhead is largely consistent as a percentage of revenue. The nature of that expense is
different, right, because we're investing a lot in various businesses to grow them over time and you're going to
see some of that in the revenue items. But if you back out all these one-time types of items and you separate out
the IB comp, expense is largely consistent as a percentage of revenue for the last several quarters.
JAMIE DIMON: But it's a little elevated this quarter.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: A little elevated because of (multiple speakers) largely IB comp.
JAMIE DIMON: But backing that out there is other expense that is modestly --.
JOHN MCDONALD: But then from a broader perspective I assume in RFS you're carrying a lot more people
related to mortgage workouts and mods?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's going to stay at an elevated level for a period of time.
Page 8 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, but that would be the main area if we're thinking about a few years out where expense
might be cyclically (multiple speakers)?
JAMIE DIMON: Eventually overhead expense from default and foreclosure REO will probably drop $300 million or
$400 million a quarter. And that's not including repurchased stuff which is another couple hundred million dollars a
quarter.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes. And, John, I think one of the charts, just to be helpful, if you go back to one of the
charts Charlie did at Investor Day, I think he tried to quantify over time what those expense ought to come down
by.
JOHN MCDONALD: Right.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's a good place to look.
JOHN MCDONALD: And any thoughts for this year more near-term on the size of higher FDIC expense that you
might see when that kicks in later this year?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, as you talk about number for us, it's now going to be north of $1 billion. And I think last year
it was $800 million, so I think it may be $500 million more than it used to be.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: I kind of object to how they went about that and so there will be more conversations about how
those charges go through. The FDIC was supposed to be deposit insurance. And remember, we pay for the
deposit insurance. JPMorgan paid as a government guaranteed and it's a government program paid for by banks.
So we'll have paid through this crisis about $5 billion of FDIC. But this is going to increase that for us.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And, John, just as a technical matter, you won't actually be able to -- even though we
know there's an increase on the way, we won't -- you won't actually see that in our numbers until the actual
increase is implemented which is third quarter.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then just one other separate question. What factors are driving your outlook on
card balance growth for kind of a stabilization mid-year and maybe a little growth in the back half?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, because we had two books of business that are kind of running off -- running down, WaMu
and some of this balance transfer stuff. And we actually had broken that out in an earlier presentation too. And
those predominately will be completed by the third quarter. So there we just know we're getting stable kind of
balances.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And the card NIM, net interest margin, was up even as the balances shrank. I'm just
wondering how it is that happening. Is that less suppression going on or are there some repricing benefits also in
there?
JAMIE DIMON: It's a lot of different things, but remember we -- some thing -- there was some repricing, but it's
also run-off of low return balance transfers. So there's a lot of things in there.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And remember also, John, in the NIM you get the reversals from declining charge-offs and
so you're going to see that benefit. We're going to -- that number is going to move around a bunch.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: It will generally head up a little bit.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. I was just wondering, Doug, you had alluded
to the fact that the trading profits had been kind of driven by the facilitated client activity. Was that activity kind of
uniform during the quarter or was it lumpier? And if you would, did it continue into April?
JAMIE DIMON: Fairly uniform.
Page 9 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay. And just maybe a little more broadly, just as it relates to the mortgage -- as it relates
to the mortgage business and all of the related issues that you're going through with the servicing. Can you relate
that to the administration's plans for Fannie and Freddie and could there be -- are they talking to one another in
terms of those two sets of issues? And is there some way that this could be kind of -- the banking industry could
kind of help out and perhaps get either assets or assets and revenue out of this over some period of time?
JAMIE DIMON: I wrote about this a little bit in my Chairman's letter. Look, the government laid out three kinds of
baseline ways to set up the GSEs and the mortgage markets. And one of the points we've made is whichever one
happens, we all agree it should protect the taxpayer, that we want a healthy mortgage market, but it has to be
designed properly.
Any one of the three could actually work to do those things. And I think that's one of the reasons the Treasury laid
it out is so you could have a conversation and response and think through the effect on the markets, how quickly
you can do it. Obviously there's a lot of politics around the GSE, so hopefully we'll have a really good healthy
mortgage market when it's said and done. A healthy mortgage market means it's got to be good for consumers
and it's got to be good for investors, otherwise you will not have a healthy mortgage market.
OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC Capital.
GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL: Thank you. Could you guys share with us -- you had great
success in your market share numbers on the merger and advisory role in the Investment Bank in the US, I think
it was over 40% market share. How did you guys get such a great market share?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Those market share numbers are going to move around, large deals are going to move it.
We really do focus on longer-term trends and we also focus on the revenue line because folks can be involved in
things and they're not making a lot of money. So I would focus really on the revenue line. Generally speaking we
had a number one share in fees, that's because we've got a great client franchise across the Investment Banking
platform.
GERARD CASSIDY: Great.
JAMIE DIMON: (Multiple speakers) like most of the big transactions.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, we're in most of the big transactions this quarter, but that will move quarter over
quarter.
GERARD CASSIDY: Does your strength in the balance sheet help with that M&A work as well?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We look at our total relationship with clients and the ability to actually provide them
financing is clearly one of the benefits that we bring to a client. And it works in significant transactions; the AT&T
transaction is a good example of that.
GERARD CASSIDY: Sure.
JAMIE DIMON: And some of the smaller (multiple speakers) not having a balance sheet is helping them. So it's
both.
GERARD CASSIDY: Can you share with us what you think the process is, if you wanted to raise your dividend
again later this year because your earnings are stronger than expected, do you have to go through the formal
process that you just went through? Or is it less formal with the regulators to raise the dividend sooner than a
year from now?
JAMIE DIMON: I wouldn't be looking for a dividend increase if I were you the next couple of quarters. But the
regulators have made it clear that -- which I think is a reasonable thing that you have quarterly stress tests and
stuff like that. We would have permission to do more on the deal if we wanted to, a little bit more. But at one point
we would obviously go ask them in this environment.
GERARD CASSIDY: Sure. And then finally, recognizing your business has changed quite a bit in the last 10
years, if we get to normalized net charge-offs, possibly 75 basis points to 100 basis points, similar to what
JPMorgan had in the late '90s, do you think the loan loss reserves to total loans could come down to 200 basis
points or less?
JAMIE DIMON: Sure. The answer is yes, but you also have all these new accounting laws and rules and stuff like
that. So we believe a strong reserve is a good thing to have an unquestioned balance sheet.
Page 10 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, in TSS you have record assets under custody, but revenue versus the fourth
quarter were down a little bit. What's going on there? Are you cutting prices or what?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, that's -- we have a dividend season in WSS and that's going to have a positive impact
on the second and the fourth quarters, nothing more than that.
MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then the middle-market loan utilization, what is the actual number this quarter versus
last?
JAMIE DIMON: This quarter is 35 and last quarter was what --?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Of middle-market?
MIKE MAYO: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: Just middle-market.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I don't know just middle-market
JAMIE DIMON: It was a little bit less.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
MIKE MAYO: And do you have the same figure for large Corporate?
JAMIE DIMON: No, because it's not a relevant figure for large Corporate because large companies can access
bonds, loans, bilaterals, they go in and out for a whole bunch of different reasons, so we don't really actually track
it.
MIKE MAYO: Okay. And capital markets, what's the backlog like?
JAMIE DIMON: It's fine.
MIKE MAYO: It's fine? Flat? Up?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It was about 100 basis points less.
JAMIE DIMON: We don't -- again, the backlog itself is a very volatile number. And there are a lot of things that are
being worked on that are not on the backlog. So the flow of business looks good. And that's -- it looks like it's
going to be fine. Companies are pretty active financing and --.
MIKE MAYO: On that topic, in terms of syndicated lending --?
JAMIE DIMON: Last quarter the middle-market utilization was 34.1.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: If this number is right.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
MIKE MAYO: So 34.1 to 35?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, about 100 basis points.
MIKE MAYO: But that's just for the $38 billion of middle-market?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's correct.
JAMIE DIMON: That is more relevant than some of the other ones. The other ones bounce around a lot.

Page 11 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, on syndicated lending, you've been in the news? So how much in fees do you get
this quarter as acting as an arranger and how much did the syndicated loans contribute to the $9 billion of growth
in your wholesale loan balances?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So we had in aggregate for our debt underwriting businesses, it was a record quarter. And
syndicated loans were a meaningful part of that. Our growth in loan balances -- one of the comments I made, as
you saw, balances up quarter on quarter. That's --.
JAMIE DIMON: There's not [non-business].
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, that was a $2 billion number.
MIKE MAYO: I was looking at -- on the supplement, overall wholesale loans to companies is (multiple speakers).
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, but that's across TSS, Asset Management, the Commercial Bank and the Investment
Bank and that's, quite frankly, trade loans (multiple speakers).
JAMIE DIMON: (multiple speakers) billion, Middle-Market is up a couple of -- $3 billion. So that's across the whole
spectrum of businesses.
MIKE MAYO: So, however you measure it, how much did syndicated loans contribute to the loan balance?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: You know, we --.
JAMIE DIMON: Predominately it's only in the IB and not a lot, maybe $1 billion or $2 billion, but it wouldn't be a
lot.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, not a lot.
MIKE MAYO: So who buys a lot of this paper? The AT&T deal clearly was in the news, but you were able to
offload it pretty well. What's the demand for buying and who is buying it?
JAMIE DIMON: It's mostly other banks, but there are other buyers in there, certain funds and investors who also
buy.
MIKE MAYO: And then in terms of the covenant-lite deals, it seems like you're doing a lot more of those. Do you
feel good about the quality since you had more covenant-lite deals in the first quarter than you did all last year for
the industry?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I would say we're doing covenant-lite deals uniquely. I think covenants have gotten lighter as
lending has eased a little bit. But again, if you're looking at it for the country it's probably a pretty good thing. I
don't think it's gotten to the point where you would look at it as it was like it was in the summer of '07.
MIKE MAYO: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: And also covenant-lite is only one factor. You can have covenant-lite and great credit. To me it's
really the credit, the deal, the leverage, not just the covenant.
MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.
OPERATOR: Jeff Harte, Sandler O'Neill.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning, guys. A couple of things left. One, when I look at
the Corporate segment, and I know the guidance is to Corporate net income of plus or minus $300 million over
time. One of the things that really drove that higher was the spike in the investment securities portfolio in the
second quarter of a couple years ago.
We're seeing that investment portfolio start going up again sequential quarter. Is that a function of just there's no
loan demand out there on the consumer side, so that's where you're kind of putting capital? Or is there something
else as far as -- I guess I was expecting the size of that portfolio to be declining, not increasing.
JAMIE DIMON: Right, but you've got to look at both sides of the balance sheet here, because we have a lot of
deposits, which when we get the deposit obviously we invest it. So I would say it's largely related to both the
deposits and then our own -- how we want to manage the interest rate exposure to the Company.
Page 12 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

And remember, it's costing us money how we're managing the interest rate exposure to the Company. And some
of that product that's in the CIO portfolio -- a lot of -- I forgot the exact number -- a lot of it what I call spread
product, it's like zero duration but it's got a spread in it to protect us from rising rates.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. And you talked some about -- I mean with middle -- I guess what I'm going to try and get at
is the trend in kind of commercial clients' outlook or confidence. We see utilization rates up in middle-market, the
Investment Banking backlog is still pretty good, trading volumes are up. Have you noticed any change in kind of
how your commercial clients are maybe looking at the world over the last six months with some of the volatility
and events we've seen?
JAMIE DIMON: I think if you look at Corporate, Mid-Corporate, Middle-Market and even small business, they're
generally across-the-board stronger than they were. And that's -- anecdotally it's surveys, it's capital, it's cash, it's
deposits, it's lending conditions, financial conditions. So you're seeing confidence come back.
Obviously laying on top of that a little bit is -- with some of these things happening around the world from Europe
to Middle East and Japan, but it's not clear that's going to derail these companies going about their business,
hiring people and even small business demand. Small business loans were flat for our total Company quarter
over quarter, but this quarter is generally a very low quarter. So it's a very good sign in our opinion. We're starting
to see real small business loan demand.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, loan demand was up year-over-year in RFS over 50%.
JAMIE DIMON: And I assume we're going to see that with the competitors too by the way, that that's not just us.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, because I mean certainly things are stronger across the board than they were when we
were on the gates of the abyss. But even over the last year you've continued to see that trend it appears?
JAMIE DIMON: Most things are better than they were a year ago; even the bad things are better than they were a
year ago.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: So we pointed out mortgage losses were -- we were losing $2 billion a quarter in charge-offs and
mortgages. It's now down to $1.1 billion. And remember, the early signs of delinquencies will drive foreclosures
six months, 12 months from now. In other words, those are going to start coming down at one point later in the
year, early in 2012, not go up. That's a good sign not a bad sign -- even though they're still very elevated right
now.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.
MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: You mentioned some of the strength in trading or the bulk of
the strength in trading was client driven. And I guess specifically on the FICC revenue, they held up quite nicely
year-over-year. I was wondering if you could give a little more color from a product mix point of view. There's the
Sempra deal in there and I think you have maybe a little more commodity focused (multiple speakers) --.
JAMIE DIMON: Before we do that, we're going to -- we're thinking about hiring Deutsche Bank to help us in our
capital structure here in the United States.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Matt, it was really -- in fairness, it was across the board; almost every asset class in fixed
income had very strong performance and commodities was one of those asset classes that had very strong
performance. Part of that is we've made a number of investments in that business. That commodity revenue, like
all of the other businesses this quarter, was predominately client flow.
MATT O'CONNOR: And can you just remind us from a mix point of view of how much of FICC is commodity
driven?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We're not going to -- we don't give percentages because it's going to move obviously
based on quarter performance. It's had a very good first quarter, but it isn't outsized in any (multiple speakers).
JAMIE DIMON: Markets, credit, FX, rates.

Page 13 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, that's right. It's not outsized in any way, shape or form relative to all those other
businesses.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Very consistent.
MATT O'CONNOR: And then I was debating -- we hosted a call the other day and there was some debate on the
FICC fee pool over the next several years and some were debating that it would be a lot higher, some were
debating it would be a lot lower. And obviously this is something that's -- it's virtually impossible to predict. But you
do have to have some view as you think about staffing levels. As you think about a continued macro-recovery,
higher interest rates, maybe some leveling off of commodities. What does the FICC revenue pool look like a few
years down the road?
JAMIE DIMON: Just put aside for the second spreads and put aside for a second how good you are at trading,
the underlying growth is going to be pretty good. If you look at global capital flows, global network, global balance
sheets, the growth of multinationals, the need for FX, the need for trade, the need for -- the underlying number is
actually pretty good over a decade.
I mean, you can -- any one quarter you could be dramatically different because the spreads -- how you're actually
trading them and -- but I would say it's a pretty -- the needs of investors are going to grow a lot over the next 10 to
20 years, not a little.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just several (multiple speakers).
JAMIE DIMON: And that includes corporations, governments, super nationals, sovereign wealth funds -- when I
actually talk about some of these flows over the next 10 or 15 years.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that's helpful. And then just separately, sort of a follow-up to Glenn's question about
the average rate table on page 6. The securities yield also went up quite a bit from 2.44% to 2.89% and I guess
that's a --.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: What page is that on?
MATT O'CONNOR: Page 6 of the supplement. And I guess that's a line item that doesn't fluctuate all that much
unless you reposition the securities book. I'm trying to get a better sense of maybe what's going on there. And
then obviously we're all trying to figure out what the overall NIM might look like going forward as well.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so the portfolio we have obviously move around, it's also global, okay. And I think I just
mentioned we went to more spread product than -- and we invested more money and we have a lot of mortgages.
So 2.89%, you can go buy mortgages at far higher rates than that. We also put on some prime, like $2 billion of
prime jumbos coming out of the private bank at much higher rates. So we can give you a better answer than that.
But I think it's just those things I just mentioned.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then any thoughts on just the overall NIM percent? I know you don't manage that;
you look business line by business line. But the NIM is relatively stable this quarter. Any thoughts going forward?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I think you'd expect just from some mix a little pressure on -- modest pressure on NIM
overall next quarter.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Ron Mandle, GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: One thing, just following -- thanks, just following up on the NIM, you said maybe
a little pressure in the second quarter and then you also said, Jamie, that it's expensive protecting against higher
interest rates. So do you think the NIM will keep going down or will it stabilize now that market rates have
stabilized? What's your thinking beyond just the next three months?
JAMIE DIMON: I think Doug answered -- the underlying trend is down a little bit, but obviously we could make big
decisions that change that very quickly. And if rates go up our NIM could actually expand a little bit, which is not -if you look at the implied curve, that's not going to happen right away. But if it does happen we'll -- our NIM will
actually go up, not down.
Page 14 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RON MANDLE: Right, okay. And then you also referred, Jamie, to the valuation reserve loan-loss reserve
eventually matching charge-offs. But right now the reserve was up, as I say, in round numbers about 200 basis
points higher than the charge-off rate in the quarter. And with the new accounting proposals, do you -- will we
really see that match or do you think that will have provisioning and reserving over the cycle that will be less
volatile and have a bigger difference than just the match that you were referring to?
JAMIE DIMON: We don't know yet because these are all just proposals out there. And the proposals are different
for consumer, for defaulted, for wholesale. So -- but I hope when it's said and done you have a better matching
and less [post of totality], it will be more countercyclical will be my hope.
RON MANDLE: We all share that opinion. Just one other question. In regard to private equity, you noted in the
outlook comments that it's likely to be volatile. But with the private equity shops looking for exits and trying to
monetize their investments and being pretty successful it would seem like there's a possibility that you could stay
at that high level for well into this year and maybe longer. So I'm wondering if you have any elaboration on that
point?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so I think Doug mentioned it will be lumpy, but we like lumpy as long as there's 20%
average. And I think our folks, particularly One Equity Partners have done more than that over time. So yes, we
hope -- we're optimistic but we don't count on it.
RON MANDLE: Right. Okay, thanks very much.
JAMIE DIMON: We tell them to just run your businesses, make your investments and when you want to do what's
right for the investment do it then, don't worry about the timing or the Company. But, yes, we expect profits from
them over time.
RON MANDLE: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Good morning, thanks. An administrative question and I'm sorry if
I missed this if you said it before. But what were the amounts of CVA, DVA included in the trading results this
quarter?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Just in fixed income and equity is $20 million.
MATT BURNELL: Okay.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Almost nothing. I said it was non-material.
MATT BURNELL: Right. And then in the Investment Bank, it looks as if non-accrual loans fell by about 24%. I'm
curious as to whether or not that was driven entirely by sales or what else is going on there?
JAMIE DIMON: It was one big restructuring.
MATT BURNELL: Okay. And then finally, in terms of the RFS portfolio and, Doug, I think you talked about this
earlier in the call, core overhead ratio appeared to be in the low 60s. How much of that includes some of the
organic branch expansion Charlie talked about in the Analyst Day, or is that largely just due to the mortgage costs
that you're bearing right now?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: In retail itself, in that division it's all about branch builds and the expense associated with
that in retail banking, right. In aggregate for the division there's -- the two significant items we highlighted have a
material impact on both the revenue and the expense line.
MATT BURNELL: And in terms of the expense, how much run rate is in there for the branch build specifically?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Dollar amounts? I don't know the answer to that specifically.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, thanks very much.
JAMIE DIMON: But I think a lot of the headcount add quarter-over-quarter is because of adding salespeople and
branches.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's right.
Page 15 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MATT BURNELL: Okay, so that's not necessarily branch build out per se, but it's more headcount in the current
branches?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We built 33 branches in the quarter, but we added -- over the year we added almost 4,000
sales force to the system. So we're adding salespeople both in our existing branches and the new branch builds.
And I think we're expecting to build out for the rest of the year 100-200 branches.
MATT BURNELL: So that build out should accelerate over the course of the year relative to the Q1 run rate?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's right.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, thanks very much.
OPERATOR: James Mitchell, Buckingham Research.
JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Good morning. Just a quick question on capital
allocation in the card business. I saw that you guys cut your capital allocated to that business by $2 billion. Is that
mostly because of a reduction particularly in the Longbow portfolio? Is there some other driver of that?
JAMIE DIMON: Mostly it's a reduction in the portfolio.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay. And if we think about the retail -- the RFS business as that mortgage portfolio runs off,
should we also see some similar types of declines over time in the allocated capital to that business?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Over time, yes.
JAMIE DIMON: A little bit because we already gave them some credit for that number.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay. All right, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: Basically the bottom -- the baseline assumption should be we're going to run these businesses
7% Basel III and the IB a little bit higher. That's the bottom line assumption. Sometimes we give them a little
benefit for mitigation that we know is going to take place or something like that, but that's the bottom.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay, great. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Actually that last comment was what I was wondering about.
You've always said that you could -- you didn't care so much about what regulation was as long as it's an even
playing field. And the SIFI buffer obviously would be targeted at companies like you and Bank of America and so
on. And I'm wondering about those kind of plain-vanilla, middle-market, retail banking, small-business kind of
lending businesses. If at the Corporate level you're forced to have a percent or two extra capital can one still price
effectively in those businesses or does it really --?
JAMIE DIMON: I guess you have to, right? I mean -- you're not going to price to lose, you're going to price to win
the business and the market sets the price and if the mortgage is usually a 7% capital set price, then that's the
cap you're going to use to set price, regardless of whether you're hold a little bit more or not, that was really my
whole point.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, alright, I'm done. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Bank of America.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, I just wanted to follow up on the level playing field issue. One of the things, Jamie,
that you pointed out in your shareholder letter was the less conservative calculation of RWA for some non-US
banks. And I was wondering if you could drill into what you think were the most harmful aspects of that. And then
also maybe you could comment on what we were hearing yesterday about Deutsche Bank separating its
non-Commercial Banking businesses in the US away from its bank?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm not going to comment on that because all I know is what I read in the paper this morning too.
The other one is I guess you've got to look at regulation. We always believed in higher cap and higher liquidity.
And the regulators are talking about a level playing field and I understand that the risk weighted asset calculations
aren't done the same everywhere. So they say the bill makes sure that they incorporate that in their thinking.
That's not the only -- you've got to look at all of it.
Page 16 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

If American banks can't have tax-deductible preferreds and overseas banks can, well that's one thing. American
banks have to demand margin from end-users, which I'm not sure is going to be the case, from non-financial -and use the derivatives, well the business will go elsewhere. So we just want to make sure it's fair in total,
including SIFI charges, because if every country does that differently, that may not be fair either.
So to me -- I think the regulators and the government officials do say they want to have a level playing field. But
why was MSR deducted from capital? It's a perfectly good asset. Why would that be a deduction directly from
capital but not plant and equipment or some other assets or highly liquid loans? Why is -- the Eximbank treated
differently than super national things are treated overseas?
So when you dig into it there are a lot of things in here that just -- they need to be clarified and cleaned up. I think
people want to do that and obviously the banks have to run a business. And I would also point out, by the way,
when America was still in Basel I, when the rest of the world was in Basel II, it didn't hurt us to be in Basel I. So
you don't have to have exactly the same stuff either to have -- to be able to compete.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Great, thank you for the color.
OPERATOR: And we have no further questions at this time.
JAMIE DIMON: You've exhausted us, folks. Thank you (multiple speakers).
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Thank you, everybody.
JAMIE DIMON: We'll talk to you all soon.
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020110427e74d001jl

Page 17 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

