Q1 2009 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
10,212 words
16 April 2009
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase first quarter 2009 earnings
call. This call is being recorded.
Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan
Chase management and are subject to significant risk and uncertainties. Factors that could cause the firm's
actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the firm's
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and you are referred to these filings. The firm's filings with
the SEC are available on both JPMorgan Chase and the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of
circumstances or events that may arise after the dates of the forward-looking statements.
Please also note today's presentation may include references to non-GAAP financial measures and you should
refer to the information contained in the written slides accompanying this web presentation for information about
the calculations. These slides are also available on JPMorgan Chase website.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live to the presentation. You will hear silence for
a moment. Please stand by. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Mike Cavanagh. Mr. Cavanagh, please go ahead.
MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Okay, good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us
here.
So let's jump right into the slide presentation that hopefully you all have in front of you. I'll start with some of the
key points off the highlights that you see on page one. So starting with profits, overall profit number, $2.1 billion,
or $0.40 earnings per share in the quarter. That's on record firm-wide revenues of $27 billion or so and record
quarterly pre-tax pre-provision profits of about $13.5 billion. I wanted to make one point up front on the changes in
accounting rules. So there was essentially no impact from the accounting rule changes on fair value accounting or
impairment, so we had no P&L impact, no P&L benefit, and no improvement in capital through the OCI account
from any of those rule changes in the quarter just to be clear. What went on to generate those results, we're going
to see business by business in a second, but obviously an outstanding quarter in the investment bank with record
revenues and profitability, and also the WaMu integration really benefiting the Retail Banking business, which
you'll see again in a few slides further back.
On the balance sheet, we feel very good about the strengthening of our balance sheet. So with $87.2 billion of
tangible common equity, that's up a couple of billion dollars from last quarter obviously on these earnings and with
the benefit of retaining capital after reducing our dividend, that amounted to 7.2% of risk-weighted assets, so the
component of Tier 1 capital made up of tangible common equity all by itself exceeds the 6% well capitalized level
of which the preponderance is intended to be common equity. We feel great about the capital position and
including preferreds, Tier 1 capital is 11.3%. If you were to exclude the TARP capital, at 9.2%, and remember, we
always guided and managed towards an 8 to 8.5% Tier 1-type level. So at these very high levels, we feel very,
very good about the capital position of the company.
Lastly here, we added $4.2 billion to the allowance for loan loss reserves. Total is at $28 billion. Coverage ratio to
loans of 4.53%. You'll see some staggeringly high coverage ratios when you go through the businesses with the
investment bank nearing 6%, so obviously very strong reserves. The backdrop there, I'll just make a comment
Page 1 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

here, is that you'll see that net charge-offs did worsen in the quarter, but in line with what our expectations were
back at Investor Day and also our forward view on where losses go from here is upward, but again generally
consistent with what we were talking about last time.
So now moving on, I'm going to skip page two, which I just referred to all the important numbers, so now let's dive
into the investment bank on slide three. So here again, you see the extremely strong results we had in the
investment bank in the quarter. Record net income, you see it circled at $1.6 billion on record revenue of $8.3
billion. Walking down some of the lines here, you see that we had investment banking fees of $1.4 billion, up
year-over-year on the strength of the very strong quarter end debt underwriting and that fee number, $1.4 billion,
is number one on the Street in fees earned for the quarter and, again, you'll see on the next slide, the outstanding
lead stable standings we have across our corporate finance franchise.
Moving down, you see Fixed Income Markets, $4.9 billion of revenues. That does include $400 million or so of
benefit due to our spread widening, but even net of that, we cleared the previous record quarter by a wide margin.
And those results really coming across the board with record results in credit trading, emerging markets and
rates, also very strong currencies, commodities and so forth. We had markdowns, and you'll see the slides here
on our risky assets of about $700 or so million on the legacy leverage loan commitments and that included some
markdowns on our auto positions. There are also auto markdowns in reserve builds in other parts of the
investment bank results here. And in addition in Fixed Income Markets, about $200 million million of markdowns
related to the mortgage position, which you'll see in another slide or two.
Moving on to Equities, record, again, record revenues of $1.8 billion, that includes about $200 million of spread
widening benefits, but still the $1.6 billion all by itself, that would be left still a record results and that's coming
across the board, cash, derivatives, and prime services, where we are gaining, continue to gain share in these
businesses across the board, seeing the benefits of everything we've done, including the benefit of the Bear
merger coming through. Moving to credit costs out of revenues, you see we had $1.2 billion of credit costs in the
investment bank. Virtually all of that was reserve building, just $36 million, or 21 basis points of actual losses in
the quarter. And as I said earlier, the loan loss coverage ratio here, 6.68% in the first quarter of reserves to loans.
So an outstandingly high number that we haven't seen before. And that is it for the investment bank's P&L.
Now let me move on and you see on slide four, you can read this for yourself, but it just demonstrates the
outstanding performance in our corporate finance franchise as you look down the page and see us maintaining
very, very high rankings across the board in investment banking. Slide five just gives you a recap. We're getting to
the level now in our investment bank and risk exposures that we've talked about that are getting to be much less
noteworthy than when we started doing this, but nonetheless, let me just touch on them. So we marked down our
leverage loans by another $700 million in the quarter. That leaves us with $11.5 billion of face value commitments
from a peak of $44 billion when you include what we took on from Bear Stearns. Those loans now marked down
by $6 billion, or 52%, to a carrying value of $5.5 billion. So on average, $0.48 on the dollar.
Moving on to slide six, you have our mortgage-related exposures in the investment bank and here as we've said
before, I'll just point out this is everything we have in these mortgage categories, including what is our ongoing
sales and trading inventory in these businesses, as well as our legacy assets. So when you look at the table in
the upper left, at the bottom you see the circled numbers that exposure is down by $2 billion in the quarter to
$12.7 billion, or about 14% in the quarter. Again, no impact from the fair value accounting changes here. So with
that $2 billion of exposure reduction, $1.8 billion was sales activity sold at or around our marks and the remaining
200 of reduction was the markdowns that I described.
Moving on now to slide seven, we'll shift gears to Retail Financial Services. So you start at the top. These are
some of the key drivers of what drives the P&L that we'll look at in another second. So $346 billion of deposits,
obviously up dramatically year-over-year on the benefit of having the WaMu transaction done. The WaMu
balance, just to note the deposit balance is remaining stable, despite the fact that we continue to not be a price
chaser on deposits and so overall, overall deposits up 2% for the whole business with stability in WaMu. Then
when you look down some of these other statistics that show activities through our branches, we continue to
invest in the branches, and so you see the sales activity and checking account, 25 million checking accounts now,
up about half a million accounts just in the last quarter alone, and then great growth in credit card sales, mortgage
originations through the branches.
Consumer lending at the bottom, you see in these categories that I show here a total of $46 billion of loan
originations in the quarter for total retail, when you include small business, which is in the retail banking segment,
we had more than $60 billion of originations of loans, new loans extended. More than $150 billion in the quarter
for the firm, including the commercial side. Obviously mortgage loan originations down themselves year-over-year
Page 2 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

and up quarter over quarter at $38 billion and that both reflects the benefits of the refi activity, offset in part by our
moving away from the broker channel on a risk basis. Auto share going up with $6 billion of originations there.
So we'll come back to credit stats in the Consumer Lending side in a minute, but let's first go now to slide eight
and look at the P&L for Retail Financial Services for one second. So if you look at, on the left side, you've got the
circled numbers show overall profits in Retail of $474 million and that breaks down to profits of nearly $900 million
in the Retail Banking side, up $300 or so million from last year, and a $389 million loss in the Consumer Lending
side. So just talking through those a bit, in Retail Banking, profits up dramatically, again. That's on revenues of
$4.3 billion in total. The big drivers versus a year ago being the benefit of having the WaMu deal done, plus wider
deposit spreads and higher fees in the system there. A little bit of addition to credit costs and reserves on the
business banking portfolio that's in retail banking and then expenses, a little bit of growth there. That includes and
you'll see this in many businesses, so I'll just mention it once, the higher fees we're paying for FDIC insurance
premiums.
In Consumer Lending, the loss on $4.5 billion of total revenue, again, WaMu transaction being the biggest
year-over-year change. In addition in the quarter, we had $1 billion of MSR risk management results and some
wider loan spreads on the mortgage lending activity. Credit costs is a big story in consumer lending and you'll see
that on a few slides. But the one thing I'll mention here is of the total $4.2 billion of reserve adds at the firm, $1.6
billion relates to this consumer lending activities shown here in total. So now let's go to a few of the big portfolios,
as we usually do, start with home equity on slide nine. So again, what you're looking at is the total -- I'll just note
that all these slides exclude WaMu credit impaired loans, which that portfolio behaving in line with our
expectations, so there's been no impact on our results related to the marked portfolios we took on from WaMu in
the quarter.
Focusing on what's, aside from that, the noncredit impaired loans here you see in the upper right box, $112 billion
or so end of period portfolio, down a bit from last quarter, so this will be trending lower over time. Charge-offs of
just about $1.1 billion in the quarter, obviously up dramatically from last quarter, but in line with the expectations
we talked about going back to Investor Day. Down at the bottom, no real noteworthy comments on where the
losses come from that are different from before or our tightened underwriting standards. And then in terms of
guidance, again, we'll likely see this start to increase maybe by a couple hundred million dollars into next quarter,
trending towards a level as high as $1.4 billion per quarter, which is consistent at what Charlie talked about at
Investor Day.
Moving on now to slide 10, prime mortgage, so here's a smaller portfolio that's concentrated in a few more recent
vintage years. $65.4 billion of balances, about flat to last quarter, again, in the upper right, dollar charge-offs in
the quarter, $312 million, up again from last quarter, and then down at the bottom our guidance here is losses
could be as high as $500 million over the next several quarters coming up. And that's at the high end, a touch
higher than the high end that we talked about at Investor Day of $475 million. In subprime then, on slide 11, not
much new here at all. It's a runoff portfolio, the 15.3 from last quarter trending down to just under $15 billion, $364
million, of dollar charge-offs and that's going to be in this range that we talk about at the bottom of $375 million to
$475 million in the coming quarters, completely consistent with what we talked about at Investor Day.
WaMu integration now on slide 12 to finish up retail, I said earlier that we're doing fine on the stability of deposit
balances here and then just the major phases of getting WaMu fully integrated by the end of the year, I get to use
pictures for the first time in one of these. You see the pictures at the bottom showing the rebranding we just did
last weekend of all of our branches in California, and then continued to be on track with the cost saves that we
talked about, substantial cost saves higher than what we originally modeled in the deal, nearly $3 billion offset in
part by substantial investments in sales people, the facilities coming over from WaMu, and so forth, of nearly
$0.75 billion. So continued to invest and grow in this franchise and it's performing well for us in the overall P&L as
well, in line with our expectations in terms of its income contribution in retail.
Moving on to slide 13, Card, I'll remind you again here, this business includes the runoff WaMu subprime card
portfolio in the overall business here in the P&L, but when I talk about all the statistics, I'll focus on the legacy, the
core Chase portfolio for consistency's sake, but overall, a loss of $475 million. Just moving down to some of the
circled number and the key stats again for Chase alone, you see that we had $150 billion of end of period
outstandings, about flat year-over-year, and down a touch seasonally, as you would expect quarter over quarter.
Total sales volume on cards obviously coming down in this environment, but we believe are gaining share, so
16% decline quarter over quarter and 9% year-over-year. The share gains coming from our focus on partner
programs and reward activities that, again, we talked about on Investor Day. So those two things combined drive
the $5.1 billion of revenues you see at the top, but what's really driving the bottom line is credit costs, so total
credit costs inclusive of WaMu, $4.7 billion in the first quarter.
Page 3 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

That includes a $1.2 billion addition to loan loss reserves. Charge-offs themselves, and I'll talk Chase only, 6.86%
charge-off ratio in the quarter, up from last quarter, and just inside of the 7% for first quarter guidance that we
gave going back to the beginning of the year at Investor Day. And that Chase alone number, again, as we look
toward the end of the year, will follow where unemployment goes and just as a for instance, you got to pick that,
but as a for instance, we said if we end the year at 9% unemployment, we said we can expect to be in a Chase
charge-off range of 9 to 9.5% and we'll probably move up 200 basis points from where we are this quarter in the
second quarter. WaMu itself will go up from levels more in the high teens to low 20% rates from where they are
now, which is around 12% because it's still benefiting from some purchase accounting.
Commercial banking now, on slide 14, here you see profits of $338 million. And our return on equity is 17% in the
quarter where we're starting to get back to more normalized charge-off rates of 48 basis points overall and we
added a little over $100 million to loan loss reserves in the commercial bank, bringing total loan loss reserves to
nearly $3 billion and a coverage ratio of reserves to loans of 2.59%. Balances, liability balances at $115 billion in
loans and leases at $114 billion, together driving revenues of $1.4 billion. I will just note that inside the revenues
for the quarter in the investment bank, noninterest revenue, so what we get from fees of all sorts, non-lending and
non-deposit-related revenues, are at a record level, so we've always talked about the importance of making this a
deep share of our customers' activities, including fees, so I feel good about the revenue line in the business. A
little bit off from last quarter on decline in spreads and some of the deposit products.
Moving on to slide 15, Treasury and Security Services, here we had net income of $308 million, down 24%
year-over-year and down substantially quarter over quarter. I'll just take you to the liability balances, the deposit
balances. You see the circled numbers. $277 billion, that's off from the fourth quarter levels where we saw the
very high activities in terms of client deposits coming in in the fourth quarter, given all the market turbulence at the
end of 2008. So as that's come off, you see that flowing through the revenue side across both pieces of business
here.
Assets under custody, about flat quarter over quarter. So when you get then to revenues of $1.8 billion, down
close to 20% quarter over quarter, the big driver of that is in the security services, so these securities lending
businesses, and so there we both had activity levels and spreads in securities lending come off as those business
activities for the market have eased off the levels they were running at. And then together with the lower liability
balances, lower deposit balances I just referred to and lower spreads in a low interest rate environment gets you
to that level of revenues. Just a little guidance on where to go from here, we would expect that this level, or plus
or minus $2 billion of quarterly revenues in treasury and security services is a reasonable expectation, given what
we've seen in the, in this first quarter here coming out of the end of last year.
Then on slide 16, let's go to Asset Management here starting at really the assets under management. $1.1 trillion,
down year-over-year a bit, that's market declines driving Asset Management, assets under management down by
close to $200 billion, but positive inflows of about $120 billion year-over-year offsetting that in part, albeit in a
greater balance of liquidity projects which are obviously lower margin. That gets you then to the 10%
year-over-year decline in revenues to $1.7 billion coming off of everything I just said and that drops you down to
net income for the business of the $224 million here, that you see here.
Finally, on the income statement, we have the last piece, which is on Slide 17, the corporate segment. So here
you see we had losses, bottom line losses of $280 million in private equity. That's on $462 million of writedowns
in the quarter. Our corporate segment, $252 million of profit, obviously there's a lots of ins and outs in corporate
that I won't go through. I'll just say that we expect that to trend higher going into the second quarter by a few
hundred million dollars, given the benefits that we'll accrue from the investment portfolio, which is obviously larger
as we talked about back at Investor Day. And then lastly, we run our WaMu and Bear Stearns-related merger
costs, which are in line with what we expected through the corporate segment here, and that's $234 million
after-tax, or about $0.06 that's embedded in our $0.40 overall profit number. So $0.46 before the costs of the
merger-related items.
Now moving on, and just recapping again on capital, slide 18, here you see the $87 billion of tangible common
equity, up several billion dollars from last quarter is the circled number. Above that is the $112 billion, is what we
have given the preferreds we have outstanding and qualified trust preferreds that are normally there. And then if
you -- and that's again, ex-TARP. It's $137 billion with TARP. When you move down to the ratios, I've already hit
these, but it's 11.3% Tier 1 ratio in total, 9.2% just using the non-TARP-related Tier 1 and 7.2% in tangible
common equity to risk-weighted assets.
And then finally, I'll just show you again the loan loss reserve build, which is obviously a large number here, so
$27 billion of loan loss reserves to loans, up $20 billion from $7.3 billion two years ago, end of first quarter of
2007. Obviously you see that in the green stacked bars on the total bar on these slides coming up from left to
Page 4 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

right in the upper hatchet you see the line just showing how we've been improving the loan loss to reserve to
loans ratio, which is now standing at 4.53% and as we move through the credit cycle, you see in the blue bar, in
the top table our NPLs as we move through a cycle coming up and therefore just the mass at the NPL to reserve
10 PL ratio now sitting at 241%. In the bottom right, you can look at this yourself, but you see -- sorry, bottom left,
you see how we stack up at the end of last quarter versus peers. So we obviously feel very strongly reserved
when you look at the peers here.
And finally, then outlook slide, I think we hit basically everything that's on here already. I will just point out that we
-- in the overall box in the bottom right, we do have ahead of us in the latter part of the year an FDIC assessment
coming that is still being finalized and that could be in the range of three quarters of a billion to $1.5 billion. On top
of the actual ongoing FDIC charges which are higher all by themselves year over year and already running
through our first quarter numbers. So with that, I will hand it over to Jamie, or actually we'll just open it up for
questions.
Operator?
OPERATOR: Your first question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Good morning, Guy.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Question for you first of all just on TARP. Now that Goldman Sachs has raised capital and
signaled that they very much want to repay the TARP capital as permitted, maybe you can update us on your
thinking along the same lines.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: So I think we've been fairly consistent on TARP,
which is we would like to repay it as soon as possible. We're waiting for guidance from the government of the
United States. We want to do what's in the interest of the United States in addition to it's in the interest in
JPMorgan and obviously we have the wherewithal. Mike mentioned we have 7.2% tangible common equity to
risk-weighted assets. That's a higher number than a lot of people have. Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets,
which is now over 9% not including TARP. The 9% and the 7% wouldn't change if TARP were repaid. Obviously
we're in the pretty strong position with that and we don't think we need more capital. But we obviously will await
the results of the stress test and guidance from the government and see what happens.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: So again, just to clarify, you don't believe that in order to repay it you would, you would
need to do an equity issuance?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know what we need to do because it may not be solely up to us. I don't think we need it.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. A much more technical question here-JAMIE DIMON: I don't see why a company with that kind of capital would have to raise capital. We could raise it,
and what Goldman did is what Goldman did. It has nothing to do with us.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Let me ask something sort of much more granular. Your equity VAR was up very
substantially versus any of the recent prior quarters. Maybe you can give us a sense for what was driving that.
JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, so, you all know I don't pay that much attention to VAR, okay, but a lot of that is just hedge
positions.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. So it doesn't, it doesn't signal a big significant increase in equity derivative exposure,
anything like that?
JAMIE DIMON: No.
JAMIE DIMON: If you look at the balance sheet of the Investment Bank, it's about the same size it was before we
bought Bear Stearns and I would say the real risk is lower because the legacy loans are dramatically lower,
mortgage stuff is dramatically lower and so it's in pretty good shape.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And not just down year-over-year, but also down something like 15% quarter over quarter. So
it continues to be a focus.

Page 5 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Just a clarification question on the FASB comment you made, you said that there was no
change because of the change in fair value from FASB. Is that because you didn't adopt it for the first quarter or
because there really was just fundamentally no impact on your business?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's the latter. Fundamentally no impact.
JAMIE DIMON: It was adopted and it had no impact. The whole thing was a big hullabaloo about nothing in my
opinion.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: I don't disagree with that. Maybe you can talk a little bit about your auto industry exposure
in the Investment Bank and elsewhere to the extent that you bank suppliers in the Commercial Bank and how you
are reserved or marked depending on what's relevant for your exposures to the industry.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. So the three auto companies, direct exposure, okay, and remember, I think Mike
mentioned that in the quarter obviously they were both reserves and marks in the quarter and in prior quarters
relating to auto. But if the three companies are total exposure, in other words, how much could we possibly lose
at the far end, it would be well less than $1 billion. We have exposure to the finance companies, mostly
collateralized, we could lose money there. It really depends, there the situation gets bad under Chapter 7, not
under Chapter 11s, but really remains to be seen what other people do. We can lose money there, but we'll see.
And obviously we have exposures to suppliers both in the Commercial Bank and the investment bank and they
are within -- you're basically already seeing a lot of that stress in the balance sheet.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. That's fair.
JAMIE DIMON: All right.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: You talk about the NCO rate for the-JAMIE DIMON: Guy, maybe you should let someone else ask a question, too.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. I will.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: Hi, John.
JOHN MCDONALD: Thank you. Thanks, Guy. Wanted to just ask about credit card. The 9% charge-off rate
guidance for 2Q, I'm understanding is just a guess. Is it based partly on your loan rates and delinquencies or also
just really more about assumptions about unemployment and perhaps decoupling.
JAMIE DIMON: It's a lot less than a guess, okay? We do have real visibility into the second quarter already. It is
based upon real rates and real delinquencies.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Beyond that, you got to make your own assumption about where unemployment goes and
you can just go back. The point I was making about the latter end of the year, as we showed a bunch of different
relationships of where our losses might be on the Chase portfolio relative to unemployment and so that stands,
but as Jamie said, about 200 basis points of increase quarter over quarter for Chase is what we can look at-JAMIE DIMON: If I were you, I'd just plug that into my model.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and what is it about the WaMu card book that's so much worse?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, it's subprime and it's part of the cost of getting the WaMu deal and that's our expectations
for it.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Are there any concerns in card about master trust excess spreads hitting either cash
trapping or early end triggers in either your trusts or if there's any remaining WaMu trusts?
MIKE CAVANAGH: We're not immediately concerned about that stuff, John. Paying attention to it, but not a, not
an immediate concern.
Page 6 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: And fixable if we want to.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and last thing, on card, are the effects of any repricing you've done already in your
numbers in card, or is there any benefit ahead potentially for the net interest margin there?
JAMIE DIMON: I think you should expect the net interest margin to be approximately the same going forward and
there's been some repricing, but it's not going to have a dramatic effect.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Hi, Mike.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hi, Mike.
MIKE MAYO: The comp to revenue in the investment bank seemed kind of low. Should we assume that will be
the rate going forward?
JAMIE DIMON: No, we don't accrue comp to revenue, comp as a percent of revenue. It's accrued kind of by line
-- capital adjusted and all of that, and that was the number. If it was higher or lower, that would be fine with us.
But if you look at the actual accrual amount, it was pretty high.
MIKE MAYO: No change in pay practices or anything like that?
JAMIE DIMON: No, no, it's just the first quarter. Obviously you don't pay comp until you get to the end of the year.
MIKE CAVANAGH: The comp to revenue is just an expression of the outcome, Mike. It's not the driver of how we
think about it. So consistent to the way we've done it before and in a strong quarter like this, the percentage
comes out the way it did.
MIKE MAYO: Okay, that's fine. And then the credit card losses, you know, I asked this at the Investor Day. Is it
going more nonlinear relative to the increase in unemployment in certain markets, like in California, and how
nonlinear is it getting?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, I don't know about nonlinear, but in any market where unemployment is up, and actually we
had charts at the analyst meeting for this, you just take them out, I think it's approximately the same today as it
was then. That wherever unemployment goes up, charge-offs are going up. Wherever home prices go down,
charge-offs are going up and we're both -- charge-ups go up even more. So if you do a correlation, they would be
directly correlated to unemployment and home prices, too. It's hard to kind of tease them out. But charge-offs in
card are clearly higher than you would expect just based upon unemployment and that's because of housing.
MIKE MAYO: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: All right.
MIKE MAYO: And then last question, foreclosure moratorium, can you give any concrete information on what
impact that had or maybe just qualitative and the impact that might have going forward, the lifting of the
moratorium?
JAMIE DIMON: If you look in prime mortgage, distorted delinquencies a little bit, but we're actively trying to do the
mod program -- it's hard to really tell, Mike and I think it's a good thing for the country to go ahead and do that, but
we don't exactly know what the impact will be. Obviously it will be more foreclosures going forward, but there will
also be a lot more people who are able to do a modification or a refi.
MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisory Group.
JAMIE DIMON: Good morning, Meredith.

Page 7 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY GROUP: Hi, good morning. I have two
questions. One is separate. Could you elaborate on your MSR assumptions that caused you to have a gain this
quarter? And then my second question is on subprime. Do you want me to ask them all at once?
JAMIE DIMON: No. Let me just do MSR real quick. First of all, we like to be fairly conservative in how we do stuff.
We think we're fairly conservative in MSR, too. But in general, over time, certain prepayment speeds have slowed
and home turnovers gone down a little bit, not a little bit, I think it's gone down a lot. It's things like that. Obviously
there's a lot of things in that model -- we don't expect to see a billion dollar benefit every quarter on the risk -what we call the risk management side of the MSR, but the MSR is a real earning asset.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. Specific to subprime, your guidance of subprime has been in line and my question
is you guys are running off the Providian portfolio, HSBC has shuttered their business. There seems to be almost
no lending for the subprime sector. Does that squeeze then alter some of your assumptions and then some of
everyone's assumptions in terms of setting up for another leg down in subprime and then what derivative impacts
does that have, or could that have on the prime market?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, relative to us alone, it's really not that big a deal, okay, because subprime is $13 billion in
mortgage and the whole Providian book is $26 billion. Remember, Meredith, I really think that happened a year
ago, that subprime markets were in essence closed. I think you're seeing the full effect of the impact for that now.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Which is why I think we've been more on track with the forecasting.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, and then the last question, is and forgive me if you already mentioned this, do you
expect to be profitable on Card this year?
JAMIE DIMON: No.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, thank you.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And that's not news. We had said that before.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
JAMIE DIMON: Good morning, Betsy.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Couple questions on NIM. Nice expansion in the quarter.
How much of that was driven by LIBOR versus fed funds normalizing?
JAMIE DIMON: I would kind of point overall we're getting just comments on NIM, get a little bit of spread
compression and deposits in some of the businesses and then the benefit of the larger investment portfolio, so
benefiting from a lower interest rate there. That's the aggregate story, continues to be the story looking ahead for
at least a little while until we have a different view on rates.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And year-over-year was pretty much addition of WaMu, big difference.
BETSY GRASECK: Right. Okay, and then on capital ratios, in the past, diversified business models have
benefited from an expectation that there's less correlation and so you can carry less capital than maybe
stand-alone peers. I'm wondering about the degree to which that that thought is under debate in rating agencies
and internally in your shops, given the correlations have obviously been higher than what people anticipated.
JAMIE DIMON: So I think we're different than most because we've always looked at -- we want each company to
be properly capitalized. In effect, we didn't subsidize any company by looking at the whole company and the
whole company itself wasn't overleveraged, so we don't expect our positional change very much going forward.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And remember, we also always targeted, as I said earlier, a Tier 1 ratio of 8 to 8.5%, well
above the 6%, in light of times could get tougher and so had some of the pro cyclicality, some of that stuff taken
out by ourselves. Also we were always very conscious of how much we wanted to rely on, other than tangible
common equity, as a source of regulatory capital. Think about the 15% bucket for trust preferreds as an example,
as something we availed ourselves of, but not much more. Which is why you see such a strong quality of our
capital today.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and then-Page 8 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I think it's fair that there will be less leverage in the financial system going forward.
BETSY GRASECK: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: General. That will be true for diversified companies and less diversified companies.
BETSY GRASECK: How are you thinking about the PPIP and the other bad asset vehicles that are out there and
would you be interested in either using them as a seller or an investor, or how are you thinking through whether or
not you're going use them?
JAMIE DIMON: We have no intent on using PPIP at all. We don't need it. We have our own assets. If we want to
sell them, we'll sell them. We mark them properly. If -- if we want to buy them, we'll buy them. We're certainly not
going to borrow from the federal government because we've learned our lesson about that and -- but I do think
that a PPIP is properly executed, it could be good for the system because it could give some prices to certain
loans and help some companies do things they might not otherwise have been able to do. But I don't think that in
and of itself is that critical to the success of all the programs that the treasury is doing. And if you look at the
program the treasury and the fed and the government, stimulus package, there's an extensive amount of
programs. That's only one of them.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and then just last question, cost of debt relative to precrisis times -JAMIE DIMON: I should point out, too, I don't think toxic assets is the problem. We hear this endless chatter
about it, but the banks who are in business are lending. They are lending pretty much like they did in the past.
Obviously there are banks not in business. Banks have always had a proportion of assets in nonperformance or
something like that. Obviously those proportions will be going up, but I also remind people, banks are 25% of the
system. They are not 100% of the system. The rest of the system is hedge funds and money market funds and
bond funds and pension plans and insurance companies and direct investor, investing consumers and that's
where you have this enormous flow of funds taking place, which is very different than you had 50 years ago.
BETSY GRASECK: So how do you think about getting the cost of debt down for the company? I mean TLGP's
going to end soon if it doesn't get extended.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, remember, TLGP had asymmetric benefits for people, okay, and when that all happened, I
would say some people couldn't fund at all and were able to and some people were able to fund a lot cheaper
than they were able to fund. It wasn't a lot cheaper. I think it's maybe 100 basis points.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And in the short end, our issuance has come in a lot relative to what unguaranteed issuance
-- what unguaranteed issuance would be versus guaranteed obviously.
JAMIE DIMON: Our cost would be 100 basis points higher, something like that. And we did an unguaranteed deal
and those markets will come back eventually. You've seen January, February, March are some of the biggest
bond months ever, which includes high yield debt, double-D, single-B, some IPOs, so the Capital Markets will
eventually get healthy again and people finance.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Doesn't that mean spreads come back all the way to where they were, but we don't
necessarily need or expect that to happen.
BETSY GRASECK: And there's nothing you're doing outside of running your business in the way you're running it
to address that spread.
JAMIE DIMON: No, because it's not that big a deal for us. Betsy, we have $1 trillion of deposits and $700 billion of
loans. So, you know, if our non-deposit costs go up a little bit, that will just how you change stuff going forward or
manage stuff going forward, but I would say it's not a tremendous deal for us. It could be a tremendous deal for
some other people. They either won't get the money or it's going to cost them 500 basis points more, and that
basically eliminates profit.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill and Partners.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Good morning, guys.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Good morning, Jeff.
Page 9 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JEFF HARTE: The one credit piece that we seem to be perpetually questioned about that I don't know if I've seen
much here, I was hoping you would give us some more color on and I know this is a big bucket, but what you're
seeing in the commercial real estate markets for credit quality.
JAMIE DIMON: So in the big picture, it isn't a big deal for us either, so I think we've given this number at the
Investor Day, was it $12 billion in total?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yeah, $7 billion or so from legacy Chase and then we picked up another $5 billion or so from
WaMu in construction -- in commercial.
JAMIE DIMON: Right, and I think in general, there the losses are going up and I think if you talk about the whole
system, in my opinion, you are going to see rapidly rising charge-offs in real estate loans. It will be idiosyncratic,
all things are done differently and have different standards and they even define them kind of differently. We also
had the middle, the multifamily lending for losses, which is over $30 billion out of WaMu. Losses are extremely
low. I would completely separate that. I would expect losses to go up, but not nearly on the category of
commercial real estate.
MIKE CAVANAGH: So a lot of it's going to be, when you look at commercial, what's the mix? As we talked about
that, that totals, $14-ish billion. Loss rates are trending higher, but probably not as high as in some of the weakest
lending into that space, so that is something to be watchful of, but I think it's our size and mix that's the reason we
feel good.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, and on the mortgage servicing rights questions that pop up, am I reading this correctly to
say you had $1 billion-ish in hedging gains, but that essentially offset what were marks to the actual asset itself?
JAMIE DIMON: No, that's -- we had a net $1 billion gain on the risk management of the MSR. That will not repeat.
JEFF HARTE: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: It's the net, it's the net of us hedging the expected change in the asset. So however you want to
say it.
MIKE CAVANAGH: You've seen -- that is a very volatile number by quarter. Obviously it's been a positive
recently, but we don't expect it to continue.
JEFF HARTE: I want to make sure I was thinking about it correctly. Okay. Thanks, guys.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST , OPPENHEIMER: Hi, good morning. I wonder if you could comment a little bit on
the sources and perhaps durability of the strength in fixed income and trading and I guess I'm thinking about in
terms of volume versus market share versus, versus spreads.
JAMIE DIMON: Right, so first thing to point out is the investment bank, both on the corporate finance side and the
sales and trading side has been doing extremely well and some of that is gaining share. It's hard to tell the gain in
share in the short run fixed income, et cetera. Very good results in emerging markets, FX, currencies. Obviously
the corporate bond market is back in a big way, prime is coming back in a big way, and spreads are way up.
Spreads are way up.
Volumes have gone up. People obviously still need the services, so we think we've gained share. I wouldn't
expect to see them at these high levels continuing going forward. I think the first quarter was historically high
quarter and if you were looking at it, it's not reasonable to expect to continue at that level. Where we hope the
share we've gained that we're going to hold.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: And then just as a follow-up to that, how do you look at reserve adequacy now? In the last
cycle we always looked at reserve to nonperforming loans. This is a much more consumer-driven kind of cycle, so
the nonperforming loans don't pile up in the same way and should we look more at reserve to run rate of
charge-offs, something like that? And how do you assess the adequacy and just given that incredible strength in
fixed income trading, why not pop everything into the reserve for this year so far?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, you've mixed whole bunch of things in there, but we added $4 billion to reserves. Okay. $1
billion of that was in the Investment Bank and then -- remember, the Investment Bank, you had $1 billion of
reserves. It also took $1 billion of varying marks on loans and mortgages, but they had $1 billion gain in DVA. Add
it all together -- underlying trend was overall better than what you're seeing here than on their own.
Page 10 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Look, we reserve each book of business according to accounting rules for that book of business and in general,
on the consumer side, as you're looking forward, expected losses over the next 12 months. Eventually they will
peak, but they have been going up consistently. We've shown you here that they are going to go up even more,
they are going to continue to go up in all the home lending areas, mortgage and home equity. Credit card will
continue to go up. As long as they continue to go up, reserves will have to be added too.
Once they stop going up, you don't have to add to reserves anymore. That will be a joyous quarter. It may happen
sooner than you think, and it may take a little bit longer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: All right, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi, good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Good morning.
JAMES MITCHELL: Quick question on the Investment Bank balance sheet, the average balance sheet was down
$130 billion, or 16%. Is that just sort of the repo book, or is there anything more significant going on there?
Obviously it's historically, as you pointed out Jamie, an active quarter. Surprised it went down as much as it did.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know which number you're looking at, James, but if you look at adjusted assets, taking out
the match book, you're down quarter over quarter, 14% I think it is, so it's the combined set of activities, making
sure we're getting paid for the risk we take and discipline and managed balance sheet and getting the Bear
balance sheet integrated. All of those factors drive quarter over quarter decline and back to levels of the year ago.
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think the contributor was down $30 billion, too, which is a huge number.
JAMES MITCHELL: Yes.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Remember, that bounces all over the place.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right and following up on the reserve question, understandably, it's formulaic -- at what point
do law of large numbers start coming into play, and while it's great to have great big reserves, you're also taking
after-tax about $2.5 billion of common equity and putting it into reserves that you're never going to be able to use
until things get better. At what point is there some pushback with regulators that, hey, it doesn't make sense for
shareholders to be adding when you have over $30 billion in reserves?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, listen, you made the point as well as anyone could make it, and at one point it's sufficient.
And I think loan loss reserving as a matter of policy really needs to be reviewed in the future. I mean, it's very pro
cyclical. It doesn't in my opinion match revenues and expenses, but a lot of it recognizes real losses that are
coming, so -- but at one point, those loan losses will come down. We agree with you, as a policy matter it really
needs to be reviewed, but that's not up to us. And I think the market looks right through it.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And that's why it's important to look at the quality of your capital in light of the quality and size
of the loan loss reserve relative to forward exposures.
JAMES MITCHELL: Fair enough. Just was wondering if there's any kind of elevated discussions going on about
your criticism and my agreement on the reserving policy with the regulators.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Elevated conversations. I wouldn't expect to see much take place in this, at least in the short
run.
JAMES MITCHELL: Fair enough. Okay, great. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you, good morning. I don't know if you could do it
specifically, but if you can't, at least high levels, can you update where we are with respect to these stress tests in
terms of the stress test -- have you heard back, when do you expect to hear back, what do you think is disclosed,
et cetera?
MIKE CAVANAGH: We kind of know what you know. We're not going to -- we haven't heard back from the
government. They are targeting toward the end of the month, as you read in the papers, and that's kind of where I
Page 11 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

would leave it. We talked about at our Investor Day, our own stress work, which as we talked about, , put us in
good stead, maintaining our capital at levels like we currently have on the back of earnings and profits, even in
our own scenarios and I still feel good about our own scenarios for what they were having done all the work
involved in submitting our government stress test. So that's where I would leave it for now. But as Jamie said,
we've got to wait to hear what the government thinks of it, all things considered on their side in a few weeks, I
JASON GOLDBERG: Okay, and then with respect to credit card losses, I guess you mentioned only 9% in the
second quarter and then the guidance toward the end of the year was 9 to 9.5%, so you get a 200 basis point
jump next quarter and a much lower increase after that?
JAMIE DIMON: Right now looks like it will creep up from there, but we really don't know because we don't have
that much visibility, and particularly like in the third or fourth quarter.
JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wachovia.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WACHOVIA: Good morning, thank you. I just have a quick question. I guess maybe
a clarification on your prime portfolio where the losses are obviously coming from California and Florida. We're
hearing anecdotally there may be some bottoming in California markets. I'm wondering if you're seeing any of that
in your primary home equity portfolio.
JAMIE DIMON: There is no question that the home markets are much more active in California, that the
affordability to pay is at all-time records there. The home prices are already down 40 or 50%, depending what
market you're in. We know in our own experience, homes are moving much faster, they're more busy, the prices
are much closer to the offer price, so those are all very positive signs in California. But we don't, we'll see what
actually happens to home prices over time.
MATT BURNELL: So it sounds as if those activities are not really impacting your view of losses in those portfolios
over the next couple of quarters.
JAMIE DIMON: No, because remember, a lot of those losses are almost embedded in the fact that home price is
down 40 or 50%, and unemployment is going up and so some of those losses are embedded. Obviously the
sooner home prices stabilize, the better we'll be for home lending portfolios.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your final question is a follow-up question from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD: Yeah, just a quick follow-up. On Equity Markets revenues, can you comment how much of
the strength in the jump in revenues was attributable to the prime brokerage versus just a strong quarter?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It was pretty much -- it was spread across all pieces, John, so prime services did improve
some, but it's not the totality, by any stretch of -- in the revenue increase.
JAMIE DIMON: Remember, year-over-year we didn't have it last year and we really don't talk about this a lot, but
the Bear Stearns equity business was very strong and also helped the cash equity side and the prime brokerage
side where we think we've gained share. If you look at all the [inaudible] stuff like that, somewhat off the back of
Bear Stearns, too. Obviously we were very strong in the equity derivatives side.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and one quick purchase accounting question, Mike, on WaMu. Are you already
experiencing charge-offs and provisioning for the non-credit-impaired WaMu loans, or is there some timing benefit
to having recently tested those for credit impairment even though they weren't credit impaired?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I would say it's actually in the home lending side, it's just low levels of losses period as we
showed at Investor Day, just given that anything that was low quality was put into credit impaired and marked, so
you just have a much higher credit quality in mortgage and so forth that stayed in the accrual books. And then in
card, as I said, you do have, because of the quick revolve of the balances, you take the losses in the initial
purchase accounting there, but as I said, normalized this quarter, we had about 12, 13% charge-off rate on WaMu
cards. That benefits the last quarter a little bit of benefit of booking losses up front. So that normalized would have
been more like 16, 17% and that's why next quarter it will be something like 18% on that $26 billion alone, which
is mostly the benefit of initial purchase accounting going away.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.
Page 12 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yep.
OPERATOR: And there are no further questions.
JAMIE DIMON: Guy, you don't have any more questions you want?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay, folks.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Thank you, everybody.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.
OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
EDITOR: COMPANY DISCLAIMER
The information contained in this transcript is current only as of the date the presentation was made. JPMorgan
Chase does not undertake to update any information contained in this presentation to reflect the impact of
circumstances or events that may arise after the date of this presentation. Accordingly, the information contained
in this presentation may be superseded by more current information. Please refer to JPMorgan Chase's more
current filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available elsewhere on this website.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020090430e54g000e0

Page 13 of 13 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

