Q2 2009 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
14,831 words
16 July 2009
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Ma'am, you may begin.
JULIA BATES, DIRECTOR, IR, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Okay, hello, this is Julia Bates, Director of Investor
Relations at JPMorgan Chase. Thank you for joining us this morning. Before we get started I'd like to let you know
that today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements and references to non-GAAP financial
information measures. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and are
subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ. For further information on these matters
please refer to the firms filings with the SEC and to the notes at the end of the slide presentation. Now I would like
to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon; and Chief
Financial Officer Mike Cavanagh.
MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good morning, everybody. It's Mike. So we'll get started
now and just if you could all refer to the presentation that's on our website, the slides we'll go through, so starting
with a quick recap, I won't be redundant with what I'll say later but a quick recap of some of the big points in the
quarter on Slide 1. So as you know we had net income of $2.7 billion in the quarter and that's earnings per share
of $0.28. The EPS number is after the $1.1 billion, $0.27, TARP preferred repayment as well as the FDIC special
assessment which was $0.10. That piece being booked in our Corporate segment. Normal and higher FDIC
operating expenses you'll see referred to throughout the businesses but that's the regular cost, this $0.10 item is
the second quarter special assessment, again booked in Corporate.
So behind the results were record revenues, $28 billion for the quarter. That was a record for the quarter and also
amounted to a record for the first half of the year. As well, pretax pre-provision profits, $14.4 billion for the quarter
and were a record for a quarter and a record for the year, so that's on the back. Obviously you have some very
strong results in our Investment Bank which we'll cover in a few minutes but also just broadly strong results in
many of our businesses obviously with others Consumer Lending in particular faced with some challenges but I'll
skip over that until we get to the business slides.
But commenting for a second on capital, obviously the very strong capital ratio is much better than what we talked
about what we're giving you sort of a no worse than numbers earlier in the quarter when we finished the stress
test, but ended the quarter with $122 billion of Tier 1 capital and that's 9.7% Tier 1 ratio and a 7.7% Tier 1
common ratio. Also, in terms of balance sheet strength, we now have $30 billion worth of loan loss reserves,
that's a coverage ratio of loans of about 5%. We'll obviously talk a lot about credit on the call later on but we feel
very good about the overall reserving level. We've brought these levels up a lot in anticipation of deterioration and
well aware of some of the trends you see in non-performers and so forth but all fully contemplated in the way we
think about that $30 billion reserve number for what we have ahead of us. Also obviously repaid $25 billion in
TARP capital in the quarter.
Lastly, before we get into the businesses, it's just important to also point out that we're doing everything we think
we should be doing to help the country get back on the road to recovery here, so we've done a lot in the trial
modification space and foreclosure moratorium space both helping advise on what best practices are there and
getting under way with it in a big way ourself, so we've got 138,000 trial modifications approved in the second
quarter representing about $3.5 billion worth of mortgages and we'll see how those perform over time. That brings
a total of foreclosures avoided to about 600,000 and obviously subject to safety and soundness. We continue to
be an active lender on the back of the very strong capital we have so that's $150 billion of new credit extended in
the quarter across-the-board, consumers, corporations, non-profit, municipalities and small businesses.
Page 1 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

So now if we just skip past Slide 2 which just gives you the numbers that I just referred to, let's go straight to the
Investment Bank on Slide 3, so you see the Investment Bank had profits of $1.5 billion on revenues of $7.3 billion
and I'll just pause here for a minute and just point out the first point here; Investment Banking fee revenue, $2.2
billion. That's a record for us in a quarter and a record for anybody at any firm in any quarter in terms of
Investment Banking fee levels so we are very proud of those results. It's inclusive of very strong and record equity
underwriting volumes and fees of $1.1 billion and I'll just ask you to flip to it now but the next slide just shows you
the number one year-to-date rankings and essentially all of the major underwriting categories on a year-to-date
basis globally so that continues to be the case and I'm very proud of it and obviously the #1 rank year-to-date on
fees and #3 ranking in Global Announced M&A on the year-to-date basis. So very very proud of the client
franchise and the corporate finance business and the Investment Bank.
When you move then to the markets businesses I'll just make a general statement that across-the-board we saw
the benefit of strong level of decline activity and continued wider spreads as a general matter. You did also see in
the Equity Markets and Fixed Inccome Markets businesses the negative impact of our spread tightening on the
valuation of some structured notes in each of those businesses but now just looking at each business separately,
Fixed Income Markets, up $4.9 billion and that is strength across-the-board, rates, FX, commodities, emerging
markets. so forth, all performing well and I'll show you a slide that gives you the remaining positions in leveraged
loans and risky mortgage assets that we've been talking about for many, many quarters now but the net effect on
those were modestly positive, P&L marks on those positions in the quarter, so we're going to comment on that in
another second.
Equity Markets $700 million of revenues and again, strong client results especially in prime services, but weaker
on the trading side, the positioning side in the business. Moving then down to I'll go right to credit costs, so credit
costs we had $871 million of credit costs and that's charge-offs of $433 million, 2.55% charge off rate in the
quarter, up a bit from last quarter and then the allowance we added $438 million bringing the total allowance to
almost 8%, 7.91% to loans in the Investment Bank. Obviously, we did have the negative trends in the charge-off
rate but it's been, we reserve as we downgrade things so we think that 8% level of reserves is totally appropriate
despite the movement higher in some of the non-performers there.
And so with that let me move on from the P&L for the Investment Bank to past delete tables which we talked
about to Slide 5, which is the key risk exposures in the Investment Bank. So here, we've collapsed on to one page
the details around what we've talked about for many, many quarters now of what we called our key risk exposures
in these two spaces. I'm just going to recap where we are now since in the future we'll probably stop talking about
this as a generic matter and only bring it up when there's something relevant to or noteworthy to bring to your
attention.
So first on leverage lending if you'll recall we started with $43 billion on a pro forma basis with Bear Stearns back
in September 2007 and that's on a notional basis. Now, we carry a remaining amount of market value of $3.3
billion and that's carried at roughly $0.42 on the dollar so those are marked down values for what remains.
Obviously exposure came down nicely in the quarter and the P&L as I said earlier was modestly positive net of
hedges on this remaining amount, so obviously much smaller exposure and unlikely to be a noteworthy topic of
conversation in the future but before closing that out I wanted to point out where we stood.
Next, mortgage related, this going back to its peak was $48 billion in December 2007. Here, we have about $12.6
billion remaining flattish quarter-over-quarter. In this quarter, we are modestly positive again across-the-board
here and so what I would say about this is about half of it really, a little less than half relates to normal ongoing
client business inventory levels and the other half is positions, legacy positions that we like where all of this stuff
is marked and we'll just take the step that is legacy and slowly liquidate it out over time. So again, we'll talk about
it in the future where it creates relevant P&L conversation but at the level of marks we have now in a quarter
where it's been very quiet for us that's where we stand on those two areas of exposure, dramatically down from
where we started and so moving forward into business as usual there.
Moving on to Slide 6, Retail Financial Services. I'll just quickly hit some of the drivers of the results in this
business. Remember, we talked about this in two buckets, the Retail Banking or branch side and the Consumer
Lending which includes all of the mortgage lending activity and servicing activity and mortgage portfolio we hold,
auto, student loans and so forth. So on the top Retail Banking, feel very good about the underlying growth
dynamics again in our business. We've got deposits of $348 billion, up a bit quarter-over-quarter. That's despite
us not chasing rates so we are priced appropriately we think in our deposits and I just will make one point here
that we do expect to see some declines in the second half of the year in these levels as we deliberately reprice
downward some very high priced Washington Mutual CDs that were put on the books for 12 months in the fall of
last year. So that will be a dynamic that will see a little bit of downward pressure in that number in the second half
of the year but otherwise feel very good about the underlying growth stats and Retail Banking and you'll see the
Page 2 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

P&L in a second and then our Consumer Lending at the bottom, I"ll just point out, you can read the numbers for
yourself but of the total $150 billion of lending we did in the quarter, about just shy of $50 billion of it came through
these consumer categories that you see here that I just referred to.
But remember, I think the noteworthy piece is that our mortgage volumes of $41 billion or so is definitely affected
by our decision to steer clear of broker originated volumes so that's certainly a difference from where we have
been a year ago and in prior periods but for several quarters now since we made that final decision to move out of
that it's been a differentiator. We're picking up less volume and you'll see that on the next page when we talk
about Consumer Lending.
So now moving on to page seven. total P&L for the retail business, $15 million profit if you look at the circled
number on the left and walking down the Retail Banking piece of that made just shy of $1 billion, $970 million.
Obviously the substantial increase year-over-year, $296 million in profits largely driven by the WaMu acquisition
so clear evidence there that you see WaMu delivering a profitability that we expected and I talked about, and as
well, some profit lift on a sequential quarter basis as well. Do have a little bit of higher credit costs there related to
the business banking business and then moving down to Consumer Lending, obviously a disappointing loss of
nearly $1 billion offsetting the profitability of the Retail Banking side, so there in terms of what's going on versus
last quarter, this quarter we had very modest positive gains in our MSR Risk Management results versus making
about $1 billion in each of the prior quarters, so this quarter more in line with usual expectations than kind of what
we talked about there, and then credit costs, the big driver, $3.5 billion which includes $1.1 billion of addition to
loan loss allowance, so I'm going to in a second go through those portfolio by portfolio.
So now, if we just move on to Slide 8, let me just, I wanted to just talk about the impact of foreclosure
moratoriums and modifications and what it means to some of the credit stats you all look at, so as I said at the
beginning, we're active and going to continue to be in modifying mortgages. I think it's the right thing. We do it
where it makes sense to us and it makes sense to our clients and for good economic reasons here. But a little bit
of misunderstanding maybe about some of the ways that this impacts. So I'll let you read most of this but just
make a few points.
On the left, we definitely saw as all did a build up in loans that were delinquent in all of the delinquency statistics
given that we suspended foreclosures during the moratoriums in the fall and spring of this year which are
described on that side of the page. What I would say is that those will sit there longer in a delinquency bucket so
our prime and subprime you see elevated delinquency stats but we don't expect it to have meaningful accounting
or income statement impact because as we came out of those moratoriums we originally written down those
loans and made adjustments to the write-downs to take account of the longer timelines to move them through into
real estate owned and foreclosure, if appropriate, or modify them.
So then on modifications, again, I said at the beginning we've approved 138,000 modifications for the second
quarter here, but those don't have any meaningful impact on our second quarter stats, and that's because we
have to see three-monthly payments under the terms of the new modification before we'll reunderwrite that loan
and it comes out of delinquency and in the meantime, and there's an example here, it just continues to roll
through delinquency buckets as it otherwise would have per the contract of the term. When we do see, if we do
see and we hope to see good success with these modifications perhaps next quarter and in future quarters we'll
talk about just the success rate but given that these are largely speaking payment reduction modifications that are
done reunderwritten with real income stats and so forth, we are hopeful that we see some good rates of success
in the trial period. But when we do modify, you just see the description at the bottom of how we take into account
when we adjust our reserves at the time we modify the expected remaining losses including an assumption for
recidivism or redefault, so that's the way it really works and we can spend more time offline if folks want to spend
other time but it's not a material impact to any of the stats in this quarter was the point for today.
Now I'm going to be very quick going through the next three slides so I'm just make some common points. So the
first point is that obviously when you look at home equity prime and subprime, you're going to see the charge-offs
continue to trend higher versus prior periods and in a couple of cases prime and subprime we up our future
guidance. But the second point is that across each of these portfolios, so I just want to say it once, they flow into
the early delinquency buckets and the dollar value of loans that are sitting in the early delinquency buckets has
started to stabilize. Looking back over the last 60, 90 days across-the-board so that's a new trend versus what
we've seen previously and obviously, we don't know if it's going to sustain itself but obviously if it did that would
have good implications for future loss trends and could mean that we could be getting near to the end of needing
to add to reserves in these portfolios. Just something to watch and point out, we don't know what the future holds
obviously but an observation of what's going on in the early delinquency buckets across-the-board.

Page 3 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

So on Slide 9, I'll just quickly hit numbers here so you see in the upper right charge-offs of $1.265 billion, in home
equity in the quarter, up a bit from last quarter but the pace of growth slowing down a little bit and we continue to
have our forward guidance of quarterly losses trending to down at the bottom last bullet trending to about $1.4
billion a quarter over the next several quarters. Doing the same thing on Slide 10 for prime, upper right box, you
see $481 million in net charge-offs, up more substantially from last quarter, in percentage terms but similar dollar
terms and quarterly losses upping the guidance here to something maybe $100 million higher to the range of
$600 million or so over the next several quarters whereas last time it was $500 million. And then finally on
subprime on Slide 11, $410 million of losses in net charge-offs in the upper right in the quarter and quarterly
guidance trending to about $500 million or so, that used to be $375 million to $475 million for people keeping
track at home.
And so one last point before I move off retail on to card, I just want to make a comment on the WaMu credit
impaired portfolio that we acquired from WaMu markdown, the time we did the deal in the fourth quarter. Just
make the point we have no slides in here and no news is good news on that front. What we're experiencing is
losses that are coming in consistent with our original assumptions so seeing nothing to suggest that we have any
need for further impairments based on what we see right now. So just wanted to make that point and obviously
we'll bring that to your attention in the future if ever we do start to see trends that are worrisome.
In Card, let me just move now to Slide 12. Obviously a disappointing loss of $672 million in the quarter. Credit
costs is the big story, $4.6 billion of credit costs, most of that is charge-offs. We did add $250 million to loan loss
reserves there. Now for Chase, the Chase portfolio versus the run-off subprime WaMu portfolio, the Chase
portfolio was a charge off rate of 8.97%, up about 200 basis points as we said last earnings call in this quarter
versus the first quarter, and obviously very high but coming in as expected and looking ahead to next quarter,
think of that number being in the 10% range and really beyond that it's going to be a function of where the
economy and unemployment goes. And the WaMu side behaving consistent with the trend forward that we'll talk
about on the outlook slide of trending towards the 18% to 24% range of losses that we talked about for that
run-off portfolio.
Next point on Card is just charge volumes so you see charge and sales volume, sales being just a spend piece
on cards declined 7% year-over-year. That number is starting to stabilize. We look at it weekly but 7% down
year-over-year, together with us being less active in promoting balance transfers equates to downward pressure
on our outstanding, so you see $148 billion end of period outstandings on the Chase side versus $150 billion last
quarter contributing to some revenue pressure in the business overall. I will just say here, it relates to revenues
but one comment to make that in the quarter we did on the card securitization side take actions to support the
securitization trust that caused the regulatory assets, the rich weighted assets in those, for cards to come on
balance sheet for regulatory capital purposes. I'll show you more about that later when we do capital and that also
did negatively impact revenues a bit in the quarter so revenues in card would have otherwise been essentially flat
quarter-over-quarter.
Moving on to the commercial bank on Slide 13, we had net income of $368 million, up a bit year-over-year on
WaMu making a bit of a contribution here and up $30 million quarter-over-quarter. I will point out circled numbers
$106 billion of ending loan balances so we do see reduced client demand on the lending side and commercial
bank there to do extend credit but demand is definitely coming down. We're seeing that effect on the balance
sheet footings. Revenues in the business, $1.5 billion up substantially year-over-year, again part WaMu and also
driven by record non-interest revenues up inclusive of record Investment Banking revenues in the commercial
bank in the quarter. Credit similar trends to what we've seen before, 67 basis points of charge off rates and some
additions to loan loss allowance bringing that to just shy of 3%. So again, we see the trends as we expected of
normalizing credit late cycle things moving into non-performer status and credit costs charge-offs trending higher,
but reserves positioned well in anticipation of all that.
Next is Treasury and security services on Slide 14. Here I'd just say it's been steady, consistent results here in
the business, $379 billion of profits, up from last quarter, some seasonal strength there, liability balances $234
billion down a bit quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, seeing some normalization in liquidity flows, liability
balance flows on the client side and assets under custody down a bit year-over-year and up a bit
quarter-over-quarter. That drives the revenue side $1.9 billion in total flattish in the cash management side and a
little down in security services side, given the lower levels of assets under custody given markets and lower
activity in the securities lending side.
Last business on Slide 15, Asset Management, net income here a similar story to TSS, steady results here, $352
million of profits up a good amount quarter-over-quarter and down only slightly versus the prior year. So we're
recovering as market values on the assets under management recover, so $1.2 trillion in assets under
management, down just 1% on a year-over-year basis and up $50 billion quarter-over-quarter. Slowdown in
Page 4 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

assets under management flows still $125 billion for the last year and $3 billion for the last quarter. And then I
guess the big point is that investment performance is what drives results in this business over time, so you can
see in our supplement and see on this slide towards the bottom that we have continued good investment
performance, Mutual Funds 80% ranked in the first or second quarter and the quartiles over five years and so on
for past three and past one year when you read through that.
Corporate on Slide 16, so take it piece by piece, obviously a lesser level of write-downs on our private equity
position so you have $6.6 billion of carrying value and private equity written down a touch for net losses of $27
million in the quarter. Outlook continues to be for challenging valuation levels in that piece of things but
improvement from where we were over the last several quarters, and then the corporate segment you see about
$1 billion of after-tax profit here. Here I'll just simply say that we had a couple of items trading gains in our
investment portfolio, $820 million and that's separate and above the net interest margin we get from running a
higher investment portfolio. That net interest margin was high and will continue to be high so long as we sit where
we are which we currently expect to. But the trading gains, certainly they're volatile, or this is an abnormally high
level, I'll point that out at $820 million after-tax. We did sell some MasterCard shares, $150 million to the positive
and this is also where we booked the FDIC special assessment of $419 million after-tax. You take those yourself
to normalize what that corporate line would be, but it's nearly $0.5 billion of profits and again that would be driven
by the positive spread on the investment portfolio.
Page 17, Capital Management, so here very proud of these numbers. Tier 1 capital $122 billion, Tier 1 common
capital of $97 billion, again Tier 1 capital ratio very strong at 9.7% and Tier 1 common at 7.7%. As I said on the
card page, this includes the consolidation of $40 billion of risk weighted assets in the quarter related to the Card
business. So you can see in the bullet that just projecting forward to the impact of the consolidation of off balance
sheet vehicles pursuant to the FASB changes that are coming January 1, of next year, our rough estimate is that
the remaining impact could be about 40 basis points when you look at the other off balance sheet items and other
accounting that would go along with that. But ultimately obviously there's ongoing interpretation around those
rules so things could change between here and there.
Page 18, just shows you the loan loss reserve piece. This is loan loss reserve of $29 billion, there's another $1
billion related to lending related commitments and the $30 billion I talk about earlier and you just see the expected
trend of loan loss to total loans trending higher earlier and as non-performing loans come up as the downgrades
that are anticipated along the way evolve, you see the ratio of reserves to non-performing loans coming down.
But still we show those ratios for consumer, wholesale, and firm wide at the bottom and very comfortable with
where we sit there. But obviously, the future economic conditions are going to dictate whether we are in fact near
the end or not, but we believe we could be getting close.
On the Outlook slide,page 19, you got the Investment Bank again. We don't know what the future holds, uncertain
environment obviously continues, there's still risks out there and trading can be volatile so no real guidance there,
make your own assumptions. Retail, I just recap what the loss projections that we talked about in each of the
main portfolios. We do expect continued underlying growth there. On the Card Services side, you see the 10%
loss rate for next quarter that we plus or minus talked about for the Chase portfolio, and 24%, 18% to 24% is
where WaMu is going to go. But we do expect continued pressure on revenues given lower consumer spend
levels, having an effect on outstandings. Commercial bank, the underlying growth is good. We like gaining the
market share there. We do have strong reserves but credit trends will continue to normalize. Treasury and
Security Services and Asset Management nothing to really point out. You can read for yourself. And private equity
and corporate I just hit the key points there. So, with that, Operator, I'd like to just throw it open to questions.
OPERATOR: Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST: Good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hi, Glenn.
GLENN SCHORR: So maybe just quick on NIM. You had some NIM compression and we obviously have a really
low interest rate environment but also you're running off obviously all of the HELOC subprime and other high
interest rate loans so just thoughts on the go forward there?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Largely stable. I mean, you hit on it, with the run-off in some of the portfolios compression in
some of the investment portfolio and Investment Bank trading type of assets that's the real change
quarter-over-quarter from first to second and net interest margin and a little decline in dollars overall, I'd expect it
to be flattish best I can tell looking ahead from here to the third quarter.

Page 5 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. The Consumer Financial Protection Agency, it's kind of being formed but we've seen
the directionality if you will of where they go related to changes made in the card business. I know these are
moving parts but is there a way to paint a more rosy or less ugly picture in terms of profitability and revenues and
available credit and things like that from on the go forward from where the CFPI could take things?
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: This is Jamie. That agency is just being
discussed and some very important points: We are big supporters of proper consumer protection and in
particular, we probably were some of the first to point out that the mortgage business was half regulated and half
unregulated and that's where a lot of the problems turned out so we do think that a lot of work needs to be done
there. The credit card, we think there should be less regulatory agencies, not more, just for ongoing ease, control,
things like that so we're worried that the more agencies, the more politics and bureaucracy around it and the
credit card bill itself, that kind of was, we think of all of the things they did, we thought some were completely
appropriate. We already had the best practices in multiple of those areas but we think it went a little bit too far so
we'll entail credit card companies in general we believe cutting back on credit they give both lower end of the
cycle and the amount of the lower end of the curve and the way they do credit, you'll no longer be able to do fixed
cards, you'll no longer be able to do a bunch of things so it will reduce credit and it will at least reduce profitability,
we believe, in the short run meaning the rest of this year and mostly next year.
GLENN SCHORR: Totally great. Last one is just a numbers bank. Could you just give us where the criticized
credit portfolio stands? I think it was $32 billionish at the end of the first quarter?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Non-performers I think on that last slide is about $14 billion and criticized overall it's in the
credit stats in the supplement, Glenn. I don't have it handy.
GLENN SCHORR: Don't worry, I'll find it. Thank you both.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
OPERATOR: And there's a question from the line of John McDonald.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: How are you, good morning. Mike, in Card, any
theories on why the delinquencies are improving? Is it concentrated in the 30 day delinquency bucket and less so
than in the 60 and 90 day in credit card?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I would say that it's in those early buckets. We're starting to just see the same as similar
commentary to the home equity and mortgage space but again, it's early, John, to draw big conclusions from that
but early buckets starting to look for stable, as is consumer spend. I mean spend in card what we see is declines
at 7% year-over-year that you see in our charge volume kind of indicative of where spend is overall and you're
starting to see it stabilize at that kind of level so weaker than where it was versus a year ago but better than the
worst point and trending a little bit more stable but again, we don't know how long it holds on.
JOHN MCDONALD: So with those delinquencies improving but the outlook for charge-offs to be up another 100
basis points next quarter it seems that bankruptcy is a becoming a bigger percentage of the charge-off?
JAMIE DIMON: The real reason is the balances are going down a little bit. All of charge-offs will be about the
same, balance will be going down a little bit and the front end is obviously notoriously fickle, but part of that at
least in my opinion relates to the fact it's the rate of change of unemployment claims. So I think once
unemployment levels off you may see that number actually start to come down a little bit and we don't know that,
but there are good reasons to believe that.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and on the reserve build, Mike you made the comment that the degree of reserve
build is declining with a 5% ratio. What metrics will you guys be looking at to stop building reserves and see the
end of reserve building?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Glenn, it's going to be, it's your notion of what your expected embedded losses are so it's
really dictated from here on things like as Jamie just said, what -- does the unemployment rate stabilize or does it
keep changing and same with broader economic trends as it relates to the corporate side as well.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And the last thing--?
MIKE CAVANAGH: They need that stuff to stabilize a bit before you get to a place where if you think your losses
are peaking out there, looking out a year and beyond, you get to the point where you can consider that to be the,
given how strongly reserve we feel we are, that would be the indicator that we're at the end.
Page 6 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, since really when your forward 12 month forecast stops changing?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Generally speaking, yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay and one quick question on the Credit Portfolio revenues in Investment Bank, Mike? It's
a tough line for us to forecast that moves around a lot.
MIKE CAVANAGH: It is. It is.
JOHN MCDONALD: Work on those CVA issues on that line and whether those should be reoccurring?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Well CVA/DVA very complicated obviously so in Credit Portfolio, we manage the change in
value of derivative assets and liabilities, counterparties in our own credit spread. That collective CVA/DVA impact
was a couple hundred million dollars positive in the quarter but any given quarter sometimes they neutralize,
sometimes they don't but there was a modest positive in there and what was managed in Credit Portfolio but the
preponderance of the negative was the accounting asymmetry where we hedge some of our traditional accrual
book loans, the $70 billion of retained loans in the Investment Bank excess held positions and so forth, we have
hedges that are mark-to-market instruments and with tightening credit spreads in the quarter, those dropped in
value with no offset because of the accrual loans don't get marked and so that negative was partially offset by
CVA/DVA. It's a function of spreads, it's very hard to predict that line. All I can do is explain it to you one quarter
to the next or you can look at a long term trend and put a place holder in there and we'll explain it quarter by
quarter.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay and you have reserves in addition to those hedges or are those loans that also have
reserves against them?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: The next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Good morning. This question is about the subprime and
prime buckets and the expected loss rate guidance being ticked upward a bit and the sort of disconnect between
that and what I'm hearing about what you're seeing in the early delinquency buckets. Maybe you could just help
us reconcile why you still feel that you need to raise the out quarters loss guidance if you think the delinquencies
are stabilizing here? Well, so think about there's the roll rates in the later buckets affect ultimate losses as well as
severity of loss, so it's forming better views about what's already in the pipeline and how it will behave.
JAMIE DIMON: And we don't expect unemployment to get worse so we kind of built that in a little bit.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay fair enough so it's a little bit like the answer on the cards?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, though on Card we have a lot of visibility into next quarter as opposed to this. This is
more erratic.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Right, and just to go back to the Investment Bank Credit Portfolio hit because of the
hedges, so really the way to look at that is that you had hedge in effectiveness which was compounded in terms
of the bottom line for the unit by the fact that you had a pretty large increase in loan losses in the hedge portfolio;
is that right?
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's correct.
JAMIE DIMON: Well,on the one line it's revenues only, but for the total economics, exactly right.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Right, because we saw that loan loss rate move up quite a bit to about 2.5%. Did you have
some large specific losses there?
JAMIE DIMON: There was one.
MIKE CAVANAGH: One or two.
Page 7 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: But that would be idiosyncratic and the fact is the reserves are very high. It's hard to imagine
you're going to really need more reserves but the actual losses, NPAs will go up and the actual losses will bounce
all around the place. And then the final question I have is on the credit enhancement that you talked about for the
card securitization, can you give us an idea of the order of magnitude in terms of the increase of your funding cost
that you're seeing there because of the need to credit enhance more?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's not that so much Guy, it's we've put new receivables in and issue notes that are zero
discount and depresses revenues so it's just increasing credit enhancement in those trusts from about 11% to
about 14%, creates a revenue--.
JAMIE DIMON: It's actually underlying interest costs at all, those are all existing deals and the new deals we've
done obviously some were done at LIBOR plus 300, 200 or 100 basis points, or something like that. It's just the
accounting for it.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: But the economics are ultimately different in terms of you're willing to accept more credit
loss on those securitizations; is that correct?
JAMIE DIMON: No. You're confusing apples and oranges. The securitizations are purely an accounting thing
where it cost us a couple million dollars this quarter because we did the enhancement. Whether we finance the
balance sheet or not is purely what's the cheapest way to finance the balance sheet? I mean it's unlikely in 2010
going forward we would be doing credit card securitizations at all.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: It's a timing issue and that's all it is.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: It doesn't change that we actually underwrite credit cards.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Yes, the implication wasn't that but I understand what you're saying, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hi, Betsy.
BETSY GRASECK: Just three things actually. One on Card. Are you, obviously in 2010 going to be bringing over
on to GAAP assets that's already in wrap, right but the GAAP assets, the card securitizations, is your comment
suggesting that your'e going to be funding it with deposits, you aren't doing it incrementally with securitizations
going forward and can you give us some color on whether or not you bring it over at fair value or at face value
plus reserve?
JAMIE DIMON: So first of all, we just fund the balance, we simply make a decision on how to fund it and it's more
likely than not the firm will just fund it, because it will be cheaper than doing securitizations and as you know we
have a lot of liquidity and funding capability and I think the requirement is, it comes over at fair value but basically
in addition to reserves below the line, which is capital which is why when it goes to the balance sheet it doesn't
change risk weighted assets but reduces your tangible common equity.
MIKE CAVANAGH: So that's all factored into the 40 basis point expected January 1 impact.
BETSY GRASECK: Right.
MIKE CAVANAGH: On the Chase related assets there will be a GAAP leverage ratio impact but not a ratio we
worry about.
BETSY GRASECK: Right. Okay. You talked about the mod programs and the moratoriums not having an impact
on the results in the quarter. Is that just on the P&L or would NPAs have looked different without the mod
programs and the moratorium?
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, on mods, I mean on moratoriums, the point is that loans that would otherwise have gone
to foreclosure if left in delinquencies and would have been in REO have been sort of stuck in the delinquency
bucket so delinquency stats, delinquency levels of later buckets like 90 day plus are just going to be elevated for
Page 8 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

a period of time until those suspended foreclosures get worked through so that's just a timing issue, you got a
little bit of a double up inside the later buckets there, but no economic impact because we write assets down in
those later buckets to what we think we'll realize when we sell them, so that's stayed true throughout, and then
you will see--.
JAMIE DIMON: You will see foreclosures go up when this is over because the P&L has already been reflected it.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And then on the modification side it's no impact on anything yet because if you're 60 days
delinquent and then you start a modification, a modified loan and make your first payment, if it's less than your
contractual payment you'll still roll to the 90 day bucket in the delinquency stats. So there is no, and that's what
that example on that page is intended to display. If you successfully complete the repayments under your new
modification, your loan would then be successful as a trial mod and then become an official rewritten loan and
then it would come out of delinquencies.
BETSY GRASECK: So you're saying NPAs really wouldn't have changed that much relative to--?
JAMIE DIMON: It didn't affect P&L.
BETSY GRASECK: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: NPAs are higher. In the future, it will bring down NPAs and we'll disclose that to you at the time.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. All right, and on home equity I get this question all the time, not just you but everybody
who has home equity, how you're assessing reserves against that if the first lien is getting modified? If you've got
customers where the first lien is getting modified and you've got a second lien on that first lien, does it impact your
analysis on how much you have to reserve for your second lien?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, and it's all given the loss given default but some of them are 100% losses and we recognize
as charge-offs and some we have a valid second lien which we expect to be paid off so it's really different in
different circumstances.
BETSY GRASECK: So the borrower has to be delinquent though before you do any kind of reserving against the
second?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, except, remember the reserving, we're looking forward in forecasting.
BETSY GRASECK: Right. And then just lastly on capital, your common Tier 1 ratio of 7.7% I know you said in the
last call that you had that targeting somewhere around seven, I realize that we're not out of the woods, I realize
that regulars haven't had an official comment on whether or not they change capital requirements but can you just
give us a sense as to how you're thinking about the capital, where you're letting it, where you'd be willing to let it
drift to, what is going to influence your thinking on dividends?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so I wouldn't call it a target. I think what we're really saying is we expect it to be around
there. I think after that, to get out of TARP and stuff, we are asked to raise another $5 of common equity and this
shows you why we didn't really think we needed to, so we're growing what I would call excess capital and we
don't really think that there's a reason to have much more than 7% or something like that and we're going to wait
and see what the rules are because obviously those will change. Before we do a dividend we would really like to
see the change in delinquencies, charge-offs and the economy so we have a little more certainty going forward
about the environment. We still have a huge stock purchase program and we're going to be opportunistic and we
think we can buy a lot of stock back, we have the wherewithal to do a good job for shareholders and still maintain
a fortunate balance sheet we'll consider that at any point in time.
BETSY GRASECK: But you're saying you'd be willing to do stock buybacks ahead of a dividend increase?
JAMIE DIMON: I would, yes.
BETSY GRASECK: Why?
JAMIE DIMON: To make more money for shareholders.
BETSY GRASECK: Because it impacts your EPS outlook?
JAMIE DIMON: No. Because it depends what the stock price is, so when our preferreds were down at $0.50 on
the dollar I wanted to buy those back too but because of TARP we weren't able to do it. So look, I'm not going to
Page 9 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

tell you what price we're going do it but I'm just saying that a rational person would say at one point you might
actually do something like that depending where the stock goes and what your options are.
BETSY GRASECK: Sure and the dividend is more reflective of stability in the model?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Normalized earnings power.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hi, Mike.
MIKE MAYO: I guess I have a question, I'll call it the three C's and that would be your exposure to the corporate
space, if I'm reading this right, NPAs and wholesale loans jumped $2 billion in the last three months, and your
exposure to CIT, and your exposure to California so just generally credit quality on the wholesale side?
JAMIE DIMON: So CIT it will be basically immaterial. The corporate NPAs are going to go up. Remember you
reserve for those as the credits got downgraded so it's really reflected in the 8% loan losses in large corporate.
And California, are you talking about corporate or consumer?
MIKE MAYO: Just general. How do you think about California, your exposure there, whether you want to be more
exposed or less exposed? I guess the IOUs weren't that much for you but to the extent California gets much
weaker than expected how do you think about that in terms of your outlook with regard to your consumer loans in
the state and any other exposure you might have?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, we are in business in California forever, so we're not going to be guessing about the next
six months. We're building branches, we're still underwriting mortgages and small business loans and all of the
things we need to do. Our standards, like Loan to Value in certain markets is a little bit lower than 80% just to
protect ourselves from numbers going down, California has always been very resilient. In fact we see little signs,
a lot of the MSAs markets there, they've actually had up prices and home prices in the last couple of months, and
that's a positive, they've been going down for the better part of two or three years so you could argue that
California is starting to see a little bit of return and in terms of building the business we're going to build the
business and not guess and pull in and out because we think it may get worse or better in the short run.
MIKE MAYO: And then with regard to, I'm repeating a question from before, but if delinquencies might be
stabilizing but your losses go higher so you're saying the severity of loss is getting greater?
MIKE CAVANAGH: In part, yes.
MIKE MAYO: Okay. And just generally speaking, I can't tell if you're guiding for much less reserve building or not
from your comments so far. In other words if you see 12 months from now things should be getting better then
you'll bring it down. Are you there yet?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the second you see things really stabilize, we won't need any additional reserves. That
could be as early as next quarter, that could be some time next year.
MIKE CAVANAGH: We just don't know.
JAMIE DIMON: But I think it's reasonable to assume that there will be some additional reserve builds the next two
quarters but it's possible that we actually start to see an improvement that that will be wrong. $30 billion is a lot of
reserves. We're 8% in Investment Banking, almost 3% in Commercial Banking and we have huge numbers
across everything else. The second you see things start getting better there will be excess reserves.
MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.
OPERATOR: And your next question comes from the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisors.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY: Most of my questions relate to mortgage.
With respect to comments you've made on the different origination channels, it looks like your correspondent
channel actually picked up and I'm wondering if this is just repackaging loans or what the duration of the strength
in that channel is going to be and then I've got other questions with respect to there's a lot of discussion in terms,
Page 10 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

of I know it's early stage but how successful, how difficult it is to modify loans, there's an article obviously in the
paper today about Sachs, and you've modified more than your competition. Can you give color in terms of the
difficulty and the early experience with that and then I have another question on hedging strategy and commercial
after that.
JAMIE DIMON: CNT went down to the extent we got rid of broker related CNT, but it went up to the extent the
traditional correspondents, banks and stuff like that picked up share and we don't have any other detail to share
with you now.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's the correspondent line.
JAMIE DIMON: And modifications are hard to do. We've hired hundreds, thousands of people, we've opened up a
lot of offices, we've written new systems. It's a complex process and unfortunately we have a backlog and we're
trying to whittle that down. When you look at mods, separate MODs before, which are more traditional, people
deferring payments, putting them back in from the new mods where you actually have reduction in payments or
reduction in principal. It is very early to tell, we're hopeful it will be good but it's very early to tell.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, with respect to your hedging strategy on MSR, is there any chance, well your
outlook, is that more rates influenced for this quarter or duration? I want to separate the two because if your
modification efforts are successful the duration might expand and separate from just a rate hedge, does your
hedging strategy stay constant, are you more reflective of the hedging strategy?
JAMIE DIMON: So this is a baseline, okay? The MSR is short duration, it's short volatility, and it's short the
mortgage basis. We're constantly adjusting future assumptions of what we think about the whole portfolio. By
product, 5s, 5.5s, 6s, Fannie Mae, FHAs, MODS, et cetera, we're always doing that and the baseline is to be
hedged there but obviously make decisions about when to unhedge some of those exposures and I mentioned
the three major ones and yes, things like mods obviously will change duration and we try to incorporate that into
what we do. We're not punting on the MSR and taking big bets on it.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Not suggesting you are but anecdotally what I'm hearing is the mods could have a
tremendous impact on the valuation of the MSR. I'm just trying to get your feel for that.
JAMIE DIMON: Sure, believe me we will adjust for that so I think even if you--.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Our forward assumptions do the best they can in terms of how the assets going to behave to
predict that so that we can hedge it the best we can.
JAMIE DIMON: Even if you hedged 100% of those things, you're still going to have a swing by hundreds of
millions of dollars every quarter because obviously what actually happened and what you model predicts, it will
always be different.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. On the commercial side, how much loan modification is going in that channel
because your assets are going down, your revenues are going up; what type of modifications are going in that
channel? What type of market share are you gaining in that channel and then what's the cross current in terms of
the fee share with the Investment Bank? And that's my last question, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, it's all the fees in the corporate mods--.
MIKE CAVANAGH: You're talking Commercial Bank.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, it's really the Investment Bank you're referring about modifications where you have a
change in terms and conditions and fees and extensions and it's negotiated one by one. It's a good thing, we get
paid to do it, all the fees in the Investment Bank but it also helps the companies, you get paid more in the short
run and you have to do it deal by deal, and that includes stuff that's non-performing, it includes stuff which is in
default, it includes stuff which is not even near default, and very often, the credit gets better because they do
things to make the credit better so that you get the lenders to modify the loans.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. I also did mean in the Commercial Bank?
MIKE CAVANAGH: And then in the Commercial Bank there's higher levels particularly in the mid corporate space
of activity tapping into capital markets so the Investment Bank, I'm sorry the Commercial Bank piece I think of
investment banking fees or fees that were associated with were $300 million or so running north of the $1 billion
run rate we talked about when we did the JPMorgan-Bank One deal for the year-to-date.
Page 11 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: That's not modifications.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's not modifications that's just sort of share of syndicated loan underwriting fees largely
speaking.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: So on the basic main street level, how much of modifications are impacting commercial
lending?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Very little.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning guys. Thanks for taking my call. Just
a couple of follow-up questions on questions that have already been asked but in terms of your comments relative
to exposure to CIT -- were your comments reflective of your exposure to small business in the retail sector and if
not, what would be the impact on your reserving in credit portfolio?
JAMIE DIMON: We have exposure to CIT secured/unsecured but I'm telling you, the initial, the primary and direct
effect in the P&L would be not material to us. You're talking about the secondary effect, like to those companies
that they deal with, have some issues, I'm sure there would be something there but I wouldn't think that would be
a major thing and remember even companies in bankruptcy continue to service accounts and things like that.
Obviously, if we have clients involved in that or participation, when we looked at that we think we're fine but we'll
be engaged trying to minimize the impact of that. Net-net it wouldn't be material.
MATT BURNELL: Okay and let me follow-up on Mike's question in terms of corporate credit quality, the losses in
that portfolio were off fairly material this quarter versus the prior quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: Charge-offs you mean?
MATT BURNELL: I'm sorry, charge-offs, correct. Could you give us a little more color as to where those
charge-offs are coming? Is that commercial real estate?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Industry, media, and one in particular, a little telecom so it's not commercial real estate.
JAMIE DIMON: It's going to always be idiosyncratic. We have some big company that goes bankrupt, you have a
$200 million charge-off. You may have already reserved for some of it by the way so that's why we say it's always
idiosyncratic. The reserves are high, non-performers go up, charge-offs are going to be very lumpy.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: And your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about
the revenue outlook and the credit card you talked about obviously having pressure from lower sales volumes on
outstandings. What about the pricing side of things? You're not alone in this but the loss right now exceeds at
least your net interest margin. How should we think about your ability to regain some pricing particularly given
what might be coming down the pike in 2010 from the legislation?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I mean, as we've said before, in the near term meaning this year and next, it's going to be
hard to see how we turn a profit in the card business, and for the very dynamics you just said, we'll do the best we
can, but it's beyond that and anticipating how to reshape the business as we deal with the credit environment
we're currently in and then deal with the legislative changes and business practice changes, we will get to a
business that over the horizon that I was just referring to earns a good return and it will be whatever size business
on the lending side can generate a good return on capital.
JAMIE DIMON: But it won't be next year. The way to look at it is a big part of that business is fine. It earns a
decent return. We don't have to make a lot of changes and then there's a chunk of it, 30% or 40% we're going to
have to make some real changes. So a reasonable expectation is that revenues are stressed a little bit next year,
charge-offs are high and the business loses money. And the legislation itself, all things being equal is very hard,
all things being equal how all of the competitors respond to it and it's already in my number about losing money
but that will cost $500 million, $600 million, $700 million next year (Company corrected after the conference call).
Page 12 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Just a follow-up on a different topic, you talked a little bit about the MSR valuation and
hedging. I mean as you kind of look at the rate environment as we kind of enter at least the third quarter, is there
anything about it that would cause the kind of swing you had in the valuation adjustment? I mean I guess it's hard
for us to know from the outside how to think about that.
JAMIE DIMON: Right. I'll be really clear. If you hedge 100% of your models and you do your models well you're
going to have a swing of a couple hundred million dollars a quarter no matter what but it will net out over time.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And we call that the MSR risk management revenue. You can see that in our press release.
JAMIE DIMON: It's just how actual pay downs and products act versus what your model said.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That was $81 million positive this quarter but as Jamie says you look back over time on
average that's in the range of plus or minus several hundred million bucks.
JAMIE DIMON: And in addition, we sometimes make decisions that make that number bigger or smaller. There
are times we are not going to hedge mortgage basis and volatility. We could be right or wrong, there may be even
times we don't hedge all of the duration as a business matter, so assuming you're 100% hedged you have a
couple million dollar swing and it could be a lot more than that depending on if we change how we position it.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And we talk about it when we do so, like that's what happened in the last two quarters where
we had $1 billion positive numbers it was on the back of delivered decisions.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill & Partners.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Good morning guys.
JAMIE DIMON: Hi, Jeff.
JEFF HARTE: Couple of things. Within the Investment Bank and I guess I'm specifically wondering about prime
brokerage, in the industry we've seen assets contract and there's been a lot of disruptions but it seems like things
might be getting a little bit better. Can you talk a bit about whether competition is increasing at all there or whether
you're seeing at least a stabilization in redemptions and kind of your outlook there?
JAMIE DIMON: We've seen a small increase in prime broker in the last quarter or so, but our ongoing assumption
is that you're going to have a lot of competition, and investment banking is a very competitive business and
there's no reason to think that we're going to be a beneficiary from people having problems in the future so all of
the big competitors are still there and they are still very good.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, and this is a tough question to answer I know, but along these lines, seeing the level of
equity origination revenues in the quarter and kind of looking forward we've had a lot of fake refis, from an
investment banking capital raising standpoint what can realistically be done as an encore? Is there enough
demand on the investor side and supply from the corporate side to keep supporting investment banking levels
near term?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, if you're talking about next quarter it's awful hard to answer that question, but I think if you
look and obviously it's still in a pretty big recession but the quarter before there was huge fixed income and this
quarters equity I think there will be a lot of people who are raising debt and equity or preferreds to recapitalize and
refinance the balance sheets and obviously it will be lumpy and whether the markets willing to accommodate big
supplies of those things, but it's also been a global phenomenon. So when you look at it global it's possible you'll
continue to have pretty active investment banking fee markets as people try to change and fix the balance sheets
and get ready for new environments but your guess is as good as ours.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. And in the Corporate segment, the, let's call it trading gains on the portfolio, is there any way
we should think of that going forward or is that just going to be a wildcard like fixed income trading revenues tend
to be in the Investment Bank?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Think of that as pretty much excess revenues, generally positive over type, a little bit volatility
but at this level it was much higher than normal.
JAMIE DIMON: Most of that portfolio is held for -- AFS, so it doesn't have a trading gain or loss and obviously
because of the markets we took advantage of buying certain things in there that we obviously were right to buy
Page 13 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

but they had to by their nature be put in a trading portfolio, so it will be a little volatile but we don't expect -- don't
expect big gains like that, put it that way. And you saw last year when Fannie Mae went bankrupt, we had to
write-down the preferred, big loss. So this is the flip side. We did buy the bank preferreds and stuff like that but
had to go in trading portfolios so this is just a flip side.
JEFF HARTE: Okay and I know this isn't necessarily as big an issue for you guys specifically relative to the
industry but everyone is still concerned about commercial real estate and kind of how it's performing. You haven't
really mentioned it as being a problem in the quarter or highlighted it. Can you give any color as to how you're
seeing general trends in the commercial real estate market?
JAMIE DIMON: I'll give you a general comment. Commercial real estate in the United States of America is going
to get worse consistently over the next several quarters. That should not be a surprise to anybody. Of course, real
estate is idiosyncratic. Because you have good developers, you have good underwriters, you have good down
payments, you have good equity, did you build a good building, are you in a good place, all those various things.
We've got two major real estate exposures, we have what we call CTO which is multi-family smaller loans, it's
performing fine and we actually--.
MIKE CAVANAGH: What we got from WaMu, that's the Commercial Bank, $30 billion portfolio from WaMu.
JAMIE DIMON: It will get worse but we don't expect it to be significant, materially significant to our numbers, and
we also have a more traditional real estate portfolio but I would say both at Bank One, JPMorgan and Chase,
we've been so conservative of the last eight or nine years it's been doing nothing but in general shrinking other
than the acquisition of WaMu and yes loss, what's the number on the--?
JULIA BATES: $12 billion.
JAMIE DIMON: And losses are, charge-offs were--?
JULIA BATES: For the real estate banking, 186 basis points.
JAMIE DIMON: 186 basis points and the Commercial Term Lending was 36 and both will get worse but they
aren't that big a number for us as is going to be completely significant. It is a big deal for regional banks.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Good morning. Two credit card-related questions. One is
you've addressed to some extent in terms of saying you expect pressure on the margins but I guess I'm
wondering if you look out two or three years in the credit card business, how seismic a shift in the business model
are we looking at in cards going from a borrowing vehicle to a payments and transaction vehicle? And I mean is it
your expectation that two or three years from now, the pre-provision profits will be more or less similar as a
percent of outstandings to what they are now or are we looking at something really different?
JAMIE DIMON: Half the business won't change at all, and I think it's a mistake to look at it as spend or borrow
because a lot of people do a little bit of both so certain like airline cards and stuff, I don't think they will change
that much. It's more spend, there's a little borrow and there's parts of the business which will change forever.
You're not going to have fixed rate cards, you're going to have much lower people offering to do balance
transfers, you can't offer low rates to certain customers because you can't, those almost will be out there forever
under the new laws. So my guess is the end of the day the business will be smaller, I don't know, 10% or 15% but
it will return to normal profitability because otherwise you wouldn't be in the business at all and obviously some of
the borrow business will be gone forever. I think people will be required to do less subprime which we don't do but
I think in the business there will be less of that. So and I think it may take a couple years to get back to that place
but it will be a decent business again and we have particularly competitive advantage because we think there's an
enormous advantage to having branches, customers, cross-selling, we know the credit acts better when you have
a deposit account so hopefully you'll see us come up with great new products.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And partners, business, and rewards associated with it will be a big deal as well and we will
like our position there.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay and then the second question is if you look through your database, you must track it by
county and zip code and all that and if you lack at some of the markets where you've had chronically high
unemployment, distressed regions in the Midwest or what have you, and where you've had say double digit
Page 14 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

unemployment for a year or two years, three years, does at some point do the losses start coming down just
because you're not extending credit to those areas?
JAMIE DIMON: So we've disclosed this before that credit card losses have a direct and highly correlated to both
unemployment and to home prices and obviously home prices and unemployment have a pretty direct correlation
too. So when you've had chronically high unemployment, you've also had chronically high losses, I do believe at
one point when unemployment stabilizes, losses stabilize and even start to trend down.
MIKE CAVANAGH: We don't have enough places where we see that stabilization to give the REIT but we believe
that to be true.
JAMIE DIMON: And with more careful underwriting you'll see the benefit of that. You already see for example, in
auto loans which have a much shorter duration so you can actually more quickly adjust underwriting that there
has been an improvement in credit all things being equal.
MIKE CAVANAGH: All right, thank you.
OPERATOR: And your next question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Good morning. With respect to equity
trading, your results relative to one comp you reported to data a bit softer, you brought VAR down and they
brought VAR up. Could you just give some more color around that?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, the first thing I'll tell you is I don't really pay much attention to VAR, because I think it's an
artificial -- I mean it's a good single point measure, but that's not, doesn't tell you the risk you took all quarter of
things you did. Yes, we had good cash, good derivatives, great primary issuants, and on hedging and stuff like
that we're on the wrong side of the market.
JASON GOLDBERG: Got you, and I guess with respect we saw private equity write-downs versus write ups and
some others given the strength in the market. Just anymore color there?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Nope. Just do it, it's all idiosyncratic so it's position by position valuations. It's hard to make a
general comment compared to anybody else on that score.
JASON GOLDBERG: Fair enough and then just lastly, Mike, concerns of home equity delinquencies stabilizing,
you were very hesitant to give an outlook there. I guess as you look at kind of other metrics beyond just 30 day
delinquencies I guess anyway you're leaning in terms of is it seasonal or real improvement and are you seeing
any kind of different trends by geography?
MIKE CAVANAGH: No. Like we said only hesitant in that I don't have the ability to see into the future, so we are
seeing and it's been pretty steady now for several months the early bucket delinquency rates stabilizing, and you
see we didn't up our near term loss guidance in that portfolio, so for what that's worth, recent trends have been
decent in home equity.
JASON GOLDBERG: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Yes. Your next question comes from the line of David Trone with Fox-Pitt Kelton.
DAVID TRONE, ANALYST, FOX-PITT KELTON: Good morning. I wanted to go back to Jeff Harte's question on
the underwriting outlook. Could you just tell us what the pipeline looks like?
JAMIE DIMON: You talking about investment banking?
DAVID TRONE: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: It's okay, but pipelines, we don't usually refer to pipelines because they are fickle too and
meaning that you can have a huge pipeline equity but there's nothing you can do about it and it disappears if the
markets aren't there for it but it's okay.
DAVID TRONE: So about flattish then?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but if you asked the same question before last quarter, I would have said okay and we had
great underwriting quarter.
Page 15 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE CAVANAGH: You don't necessarily see all of the activity sitting in the pipeline at the get go.
DAVID TRONE: Yes, the secondary offers come within the quarter.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
DAVID TRONE: On the fixed income trading side I just wanted to get something clear. You mentioned in the
slides strong performance across all products. Could you just look sequentially from the first quarter, was there
anything particularly strong or particularly weak?
JAMIE DIMON: I mean, no. Strength generally is what we mean. A little bit of differentiation but nothing to really
draw attention to.
DAVID TRONE: Okay, and any -- changing gears a little bit, any thoughts on the shared national credit exam?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think you've got what we see is the results of that reflected in our numbers this quarter.
DAVID TRONE: Okay, great. Thank you.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning guys.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Good morning.
NANCY BUSH: A couple of questions here on sort of core deposit pricing. Have you kind of hit the floor in
consumer deposit pricing and do you expect any material impacts to NIM one way or the other to come from core
deposit pricing over the next couple quarters?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think the only thing I can mention, Nancy, no, generally but the only thing I mentioned is that
in looking at the Washington Mutual deposits there's some very high rate time deposit money that will likely roll off
where it's not related to an existing retail branch customer, we're not going to be chasing, holding on to those kind
of hot money deposits and paying a price to do it, so that will obviously effect the levels of NIM and the retail
business.
NANCY BUSH: Has the WaMu run-off, Mike, been sort of generally where you expected it to be?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think it was pretty good as we talked about going back to the deal closed late september,
right? So when we talked about it during our October earnings call it was the early read that we had immediately
stabilized the behavior there and then with the stuff that's gone on in that business so for the core activity real
retail clients it's behaving nicely. As I said there is a chunk of the deposit base there that is sort of non-affiliated,
non-client just attracted by the rate, so that's going to behave a little differently but we're fine with that.
NANCY BUSH: Okay, we've had a couple of new stories in the past couple of days about the continued difficulty
in getting jumbo mortgage money and how that's impacting some of the high cost real estate markets. Could you
guys just speak to sort of your jumbo origination trends and how you're underwriting at this point?
JAMIE DIMON: I think that it's a very good question and there are some people out there with kind of less lower
jumbo rates than we have and we are doing them. We've been very conservative. We'll probably be a little more
aggressive going forward.
MIKE CAVANAGH: And we focused on our own clients to begin with.
JAMIE DIMON: But jumbo spreads to conforming have come in. For a while they were very high and I'm going to
say they were 75 to 125 basis points today.
NANCY BUSH: Okay, and Jamie, finally a question for you. We had one repurchase of warrants yesterday. Not
particularly cheap.
JAMIE DIMON: Who did?
MIKE CAVANAGH: U.S. Bancorp:
Page 16 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

NANCY BUSH: Any thoughts about when that issue will get resolved?
JAMIE DIMON: Did we do the analysis and--?
MIKE CAVANAGH: We're working on it. So I dealt with that one, Nancy. So we are basically just following the
governments process, so we made an offer, the government didn't take us up on that offer so in the natural
process, we've allowed then rather than go through a negotiated or rather a pretty convoluted appraisal process
have allowed them just to take it to a public auction given what their announced intentions are so we don't know
anything yet on the timing for that or how exactly they will carry that forward.
NANCY BUSH: Thanks guys.
MIKE CAVANAGH: But we're totally fine, it's a reason to understand their approach and what they're trying to get
done.
NANCY BUSH: Thank you.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning guys. Most of my questions have been asked and
answered but just one thing quick. I know you're very reluctant to comment on an outlook for trading revenue but
can you just give us a sense two things, on customer trading especially on the fixed income side, are spreads still
in the month of July remaining abnormally wide from a customer trading standpoint and do you get the sense that
you're picking up, broad based that you're picking up market share in your various fixed income trading
businesses? Thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: I would answer the second question first which is yes, I think we've picked up share over time.
That's actually been reflected in some analysis we do and look at client share in Fixed Income because
throughout this whole crisis, we've been open, making markets and trading and obviously some people weren't
and spreads have been coming down. Obviously they were very high, ridiculously high, no one has the right to
expect it that high and our ongoing assumption would be that there should probably be decent client volume and
spreads are going to come down and we see it happen in various products already.
ED NAJARIAN: Spreads are going to come down in the third quarter? I mean, reasonably quickly?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think they came down over the course of the second quarter and it's best we would assume
competition comes back and knocks them a little bit tighter.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mandle with GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi. I was wondering if you all could comment on compensation expense on a
linked quarter basis as revenue linked quarter was up and comps was down about 10% and if you could include
the comp trends in the investment bank where the ratio was also down, how you're thinking about that now?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so we do it fairly consistently to how we've always done it and it's a risk adjusted measure
so that number can bounce around any particular quarter depending on how the revenues earned, where they
were earned and things lie that so like anybody else we're going to be competitive in investment banking comp.
We have a very good business, we're very proud of the results there and that number will jump around. We do it
every quarter. It's not like we do a high number three quarters and a low number the fourth quarter so it's
probably more level than other people actually do it.
MIKE CAVANAGH: But we don't know the second half of the year obviously and that's when we'll really figure it
out for good.
RON MANDLE: What was different in the mix of revenue this quarter that would have lead to the lower comp on
the same overall corporate revenue?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I would just say it's when we look at it on a six-month year-to-date basis we're comfortable
with where we sit.
Page 17 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RON MANDLE: So are you suggesting that we should really look at the six-month?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, I think the six-month level as Jamie said, underlying approach is very much risk-based,
so comp to revenue is not a great proxy but it's the best you all can do, so I take the first six months as a way to
approach it for second half.
RON MANDLE: And in non-comp were there any particular things we should think about there, any particular cost
cutting measures that might affect the second half or expense trends that might increase?
MIKE CAVANAGH: You talking about the firm or the investment bank?
RON MANDLE: The firm.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Just the things we pointed out, FDIC expense and so forth.
RON MANDLE: Right. I meant beyond that obviously.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
RON MANDLE: Okay, thanks very much.
OPERATOR: And your next question comes from the line of Richard Staite with Atlantic Equities.
RICHARD STAITE, ANALYST, ATLANTIC EQUITIES: Good morning. I just wanted to ask about overall revenues
and strategy obviously hit revenue record this quarter, but clearly, you were working against a background where
a lot of your customers, corporates and individuals are now deleveraging and loans are shrinking, so what are the
opportunities for growth over the next couple of years? Will total revenues potentially fall over this period, and are
there any businesses in particular that you'd like to see your market share improve?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Richard, I think--.
JAMIE DIMON: We want our market share to improve in every business. I don't think it's a bad thing corporate
loans are going down because a lot of them are going down because pep are accessing capital markets and
that's a good thing and we do business with that too so in terms of building the business, just as a business
matter and more philosophical statement, we're going to have great bankers going in great clients doing real
business the best way we can do it. We open branches, we do our marketing and the revenues are going to
bounce around. You can forecast GDP and unemployment and global just like we can, so that's your job to do
that. We're going to build the business relentlessly day in and day out with great products and great services and
great people. And with profits and revenues will be what they are.
RICHARD STAITE: Okay, thanks.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Great. I think that's the last of the questions, so thank you everybody and we'll look forward to
talking to you next quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Take care.
TRANSCRIPT DISCLAIMER
The information contained in this transcript is current only as of the date the presentation was made. JPMorgan
Chase does not undertake to update any information contained in this presentation to reflect the impact of
circumstances or events that may arise after the date of this presentation. Accordingly, the information contained
in this presentation may be superseded by more current information. Please refer to JPMorgan Chase's more
current filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available elsewhere on this website.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
Page 18 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020090730e57g000gs

Page 19 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

