Q2 2018 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
8,462 words
13 July 2018
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
© 2018 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Second Quarter 2018
Earnings Call. This call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) We will now go live to the presentation. Please standby.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon; and Chief
Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.
MARIANNE LAKE, EXECUTIVE VP & CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator. Good morning,
everyone. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation, which is available on our website. Please refer
to the disclaimer at the back of the presentation.
Starting on Page 1. The firm reported net income of $8.3 billion and EPS of $2.29 on revenue of $28.4 billion. All
were records for second quarter, even excluding the benefit of tax reform. Our return on tangible common equity
was 17%. And also included in the results were 2 notable items, which I will call out in a moment, excluding which
EPS would have been about $0.10 higher.
The strength this quarter was broad-based across businesses, and highlights include average core loan growth
excluding CIB of 7% year-on-year; Consumer deposit growth of 5%, which we believe continues to outpace the
industry; Card sales up 11%; and client investment assets and merchant processing volumes each up 12%. We
maintained our #1 rank in Global IB fees, and CIB delivered double-digit revenue growth across the board.
Commercial Bank revenue was up 11% year-on-year, with IB revenues being a bright spot this quarter. And in
Asset & Wealth Management, AUM and client assets were both up 8%.
Turning to Page 2 for more details about the second quarter. The firm delivered strong core positive operating
leverage this quarter. Revenue of $28.4 billion was up $1.7 billion or 6% year-on-year. Net interest income was
up $1.1 billion or 9%, reflecting the impact of higher rates and loan growth, partially offset by lower Markets NII.
Noninterest revenue was up over $600 million, driven by strong performance in Markets and IB fees and also
higher Auto lease income. NIR this quarter was negatively impacted by a rewards liability adjustment in Card, and
remember that last year included a significant legal benefit. Excluding these 2 items, NIR would have been up
$1.6 billion and total revenue up 10%.
Expense of $16 billion was up 8% year-on-year, with half of the increase directly related to incremental revenues,
principally compensation in the CIB, transaction expenses and Auto lease growth. About 1/3 related to continued
investments in technology as well as headcount across the businesses. And the remainder was largely a loss on
the liquidation of a legacy legal entity as part of our simplification efforts. And if you exclude this item, expense
was up only 7%.
The legal entity loss together with the rewards liability adjustment in Card are the 2 notable items I mentioned at
the beginning, for a total reduction of over $500 million pretax. Credit costs of $1.2 billion were flat year-on-year,
and credit trends remain favorable across both Consumer and Wholesale.

Page 1 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Shifting to balance sheet and capital on Page 3. We ended the second quarter with CET1 of 11.9%, up about 10
basis points versus the last quarter, as most of the capital generated was returned to shareholders. Risk-weighted
assets were relatively flat despite solid growth in loans and commitments being offset across other categories.
In the quarter, the firm distributed $6.6 billion of capital to shareholders. And last month, the Fed informed us that
they did not object to our 2018 capital plan. We were pleased to announce gross repurchase capacity of nearly
$21 billion over the next 4 quarters, and the board announced its intention to increase our common dividend to
$0.80 per share, effective in the third quarter.
Moving on to Page 4 and Consumer & Community Banking. CCB generated $3.4 billion of net income and an
ROE of 26%. Core loans were up 7% year-on-year, driven by Home Lending, up 12%; Business Banking, up 6%;
Card, up 4%; and Auto loans and leases, also up 4%. Deposits grew 5%, and although growth is slower than a
year ago, we are seeing record-high retention rates and customer satisfaction scores. Client investment assets
were up 12%, with more than half of the growth from net new money flows, and we are capturing an outsized
share as our customers shift from deposit to investments. Card sales volume was up 11%, and we announced
several new cards as we continue to update our product offering.
Revenue of $12.5 billion was up 10% year-on-year. Consumer & Business Banking revenue was up 17% on
higher NII, driven by continued margin expansion as well as deposit growth. Home Lending revenue was down
6% on production margin compression and lower net servicing revenue despite higher purchase volume in retail.
And Card merchant services and Auto revenue was up 6%, driven by lower card acquisition costs, higher Card
NII on margin expansion as well as loan growth as well as higher Auto lease volumes. This was largely offset by
lower net interchange, driven by a rewards liability adjustment of about $330 million, reflecting strong customer
engagement across our ultimate rewards offerings. As a result, the Card revenue rate was 10.4% for the quarter,
but our full year guidance of approximately 11.25% holds. Expense of $6.9 billion was up 6% year-on-year, driven
by higher Auto lease depreciation and investments in technology.
Finally, on credit, charge-offs were down $36 million year-on-year, including a recovery of about $130 million from
a loan sale in Home Lending. This was largely offset by higher net charge-offs in Card. The Card charge-off rate
was 3.27%, reflecting seasonality and is in line with expectations and in line with our guidance. There were no
reserve actions taken this quarter.
Turning to Page 5 and the Corporate & Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $3.2 billion on revenue of
$9.9 billion, up 11%, and an ROE of 17%. In banking, we maintained our #1 ranking for the quarter and
year-to-date in Global IB fees, with a record first half performance, and we grew share across all regions. IB
revenue of $1.9 billion was up 13% year-on-year, outperforming a market that was down slightly, as we saw
robust activity particularly in M&A and ECM.
It was a record second quarter for advisory fees, which were up 24%. Benefiting from a number of large deals
closing this quarter, we gained share and ranked #2 globally. Equity underwriting fees were up 49%. We ranked
#1 globally as well as in North America and EMEA and gained share in a competitive environment, driven by
IPOs and convertibles in the 2 most active sectors, health care and technology, which are areas of strength for
us.
Additionally, we saw good momentum in private capital markets as clients are exploring alternative sources of
capital. And debt underwriting fees were relatively flat versus a very strong prior year quarter, supported by
healthy acquisition-related activity, and we ranked #1 in DCM globally and across all subproducts. Looking
forward, the overall pipeline remains strong.
Moving on to Markets. Total revenue was $5.4 billion, up 13% year-on-year or up 16% adjusting for the impact of
tax reform and was driven by strong results in equities, solid performance in FICC across categories and with
performance picking up in the second half of the quarter.
Fixed Income Markets revenue was up 12%, adjusted, on the back of good client flow and decent volatility and
with commodities making a notable recovery from a challenging prior year. It was a record second quarter for
equities, with revenue up 24%, driven by strong client activity and favorable trading results and with particular
strength in cash, prime and flow derivatives.
Treasury Services and Securities Services revenues were each up 12%, driven by higher rates and deposit
balances, and Securities Services also benefited from higher asset-based fees on new client activity and higher
market levels. Finally, expense of $5.4 billion was up 11%, driven by higher performance-related compensation,
Page 2 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

volume-related transaction costs and investments in technology. The comp-to-revenue ratio for the quarter was
27%, consistent with the prior year quarter.
Moving to Commercial Banking on Page 6. Another strong quarter for this business with net income of $1.1 billion
and an ROE of 21%. Revenue was a record for a second quarter, up 11% year-on-year, driven by higher deposit
NII and strong Investment Banking activity. Gross IB revenue of $739 million was up 39%, driven by several large
transactions, a strong underlying flow of business and the overall pipeline is robust and active.
Expense of $844 million was up 7% as we continue to invest in the business, both in bankers and in technology.
Loan balances were up 4% year-on-year and 2% sequentially. C&I loans were up 3% year-on-year and
sequentially due to increased M&A-related financing, with strength in our expansion markets as well as in
specialized industries and despite lower tax-exempt activity.
CRE loans were up 4% year-on-year and flat versus last quarter as there continues to be a lot of competition for
high-quality assets and we are selective given where we are in the cycle. Finally, credit performance remains
strong with a net charge-off rate of 7 basis points.
Moving on to Asset & Wealth Management on Page 7. Asset & Wealth Management reported net income of $755
million, with a pretax margin of 28% and an ROE of 33%. Revenue of $3.6 billion was up 4% year-on-year, driven
by higher management fees on growth in long-term products as well as strong banking results. Expense of $2.6
billion was up 6%, driven by continued investments in advisers and technology as well as higher external fees on
revenue growth.
For the quarter, we saw net long-term inflows of $4 billion, with positive flows across multi-asset, equities and
alternatives, partially offset by outflows in fixed income. Additionally, we saw net liquidity flows -- inflows of $17
billion. AUM of $2 trillion and overall client assets of $2.8 trillion were both up 8%, with the increase being split
about equally between flows and higher market levels globally.
Deposits were down 7% year-on-year, reflecting continued migration into investments, where we are also
capturing the vast majority, and down 3% sequentially on seasonal tax payments. Finally, we had record loan
balances, up 12%, with strength in global Wholesale and mortgage lending.
Moving to Page 8 and Corporate. Corporate reported a net loss of $136 million. The result included a pretax $174
million loss on the liquidation of a legacy legal entity previously mentioned. But it is of note that while this loss
through expense affects retained earnings this quarter, it is offset from a capital perspective. So it's
capital-neutral.
Before I wrap up, you may note we have no outlook page here. Although both revenue and expense are trending
higher, market related, given we're only halfway through the year, we are not updating our outlook at this point.
So to close, the macroeconomic backdrop continues to be supportive. Consumer and business confidence and
sentiment remains high. Client activity levels are robust, and the markets are open and active.
We are pleased with the funds results this quarter. Our broad-based financial performance clearly demonstrates
the power of the platform. Revenue grew strongly, double digits year-over-year in many cases. We realized
positive core operating leverage despite significant investments. And credit trends remained favorable across
both Consumer and Wholesale.
This was a clear record for a second quarter whichever way you slice it. We remain focused on consistently
delivering for our customers and our communities and investing for the long term.
With that, operator, can you open up the line to Q&A.
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: And our first question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN, MD AND SENIOR EQUITY RESEARCH ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC,
RESEARCH DIVISION: Marianne, can I ask you to talk a little bit about the Card business? And you mentioned
the strong customer engagement with regards to the rewards markdown. Can you just walk us through what's the
drivers of that? And this is a onetime event? And does it affect the Card revenue rate outlook?
MARIANNE LAKE: So I'll start at the end because that's pretty simple. It obviously affected the Card revenue rate
in the quarter. You can see that, that was 10.4%, and you can see on the page we've adjusted for the impact. But
Page 3 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

the 11.25% for the year remains true, which is to say that while this may be slightly larger than normal, it's not
exactly a onetime item. We regularly review our liability as we observe the mix of our portfolio and the behaviors
of our customers. On face value, I know rewards is often talked about as a competitive matter. I mean, this is less
about competition per se. In fact, we have record-low sales attrition, which, in a competitive environment, is really
very good. And it's more about a customer's awareness of the value proposition of rewards and them being
engaged in redeeming them, which, for us, is net a positive thing because engaged customers spend more and
we're seeing that -- they attrite less, and we're seeing that. And they will bring us more of their share of deposits
and investments as we deepen relationships. So I would say it's a little larger than normal. We do it pretty
regularly, so it's not onetime, but it's not completely typical.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: Got it. And in the press release, Jamie mentioned in the first paragraph about
increasing competition. Is that a global, across-all-businesses comment? Or are you seeing it narrowly in specific
areas?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. I think it's -- I mean, it's pretty global across all businesses as a general matter. I mean,
there are some obvious areas where it's pretty acute. In the retail auto space, for example; we talked about
Commercial Real Estate, for example; mortgage, clearly with capacity in the system, for example, all of those
areas are pretty competitive for a variety of reasons, given where we are on the cycle, in the economy and the
like. But I would say it's broad-based. It's everywhere. That said, we are holding our own and, in many cases,
gaining share, so we're doing pretty well.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from John McDonald of Bernstein.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD, SENIOR ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO., LLC., RESEARCH
DIVISION: Marianne, I wanted to ask you what you're seeing this quarter in terms of Consumer deposit trends, a
little more color on both the pricing beta and volume balances. Kind of wondering if you're seeing a lot of
competition from the online competitors like Marcus and whether those are affecting your deposit balances with
consumers being attracted to those high yields. And are they affecting your pricing decisions?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So I would say -- you talked Consumer deposit, so I'm now -- I'm talking retail now, not
the sort of high-net-worth base. I'll come back to that. Consumer deposit is up 5% year-on-year, slowing down, as
we would have expected. While you have seen online competitors and even some regional competitors make
some moves in the large bank space, we haven't really seen that yet. When we look at the sort of deposit
slowdown and we unpack it, it feels to us like the vast majority of the root cause is customers moving into
investments and, in the case of retail customers, actually into managed accounts, so it doesn't even appear to be
rate-seeking. Spending more would be the second driver. And to a much lesser extent, we're seeing behaviors
that look like they're rate-seeking at this point. So we're not seeing that kind of migration out of the company to
online or other competitors at this point. And so at this point, reprice is still not happening. That said, we are on a
journey clearly. In the high net worth space, we continue to see the migration into investment assets we've been
seeing. And again, we continue to recapture the vast majority of those. So at this point, things are playing out as
we would have expected, and we're not actually losing deposits en masse to any third parties.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD: Okay. And just to follow up on that, can you remind us what's the opportunity you
see with the rollout of Finn and what advantages you expect to have in that arena?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would look at Finn as one of many sort of digital innovations that we're doing. And I
would look at it also in conjunction with broader digital account opening. And although we have now launched
Finn nationwide, I think it's fair to say it's still very nascent, and we're still learning. So we're going to continue to
observe. It's got very high Net Promoter Score, by the way, so customer experience is good, but it's still quite
young.
JAMES DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: And we haven't even marketed it yet.
MARIANNE LAKE: No, we just started. I would say digital account opening, on the other hand, is a pretty good
success story. And we are seeing a lot more accounts opened digitally across the channels, and we're seeing, of
those, a decent chunk of net new to the bank. And where we're seeing existing customers open new accounts,
we're getting incremental money. So we are seeing our digital effort pay off. And even more broadly than that, we
could go into QuickPay and Zelle and the like. But I wouldn't focus overly on Finn as -- and I'd say to think digital
more broadly.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research.

Page 4 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL, RESEARCH ANALYST, THE BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP
INCORPORATED: Maybe just talk a little bit about loan growth. Obviously, it seems to have picked up in the Fed
data over the last month or 2. What are you guys seeing on the ground? And do you think what we've seen so far
is a good indicator for maybe a more sustained pickup in growth?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I would say that -- we would -- it is -- the Commercial Bank C&I loans is a kind of
bellwether. There has been decent demand. And I mentioned it in my remarks, but decent demand, not
exclusively but partially on the back of a very robust and active M&A environment. And so the demand is there. I
would say growth is solid and in line with our expectations. We will continue to hope to see that growth as we go
through the year. And there may up -- and there may be other tailwinds. We've yet to see the full effect of tax
reform flow through into profitability and free cash flow. So I would categorize loan growth as solid, and our
expectation is for the outlook to remain solid, benefiting from a very active capital markets environment.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL: Okay. And maybe as a follow-up, when we think about NIM going forward -- I
mean, I think it was a couple of years ago that you've talked about maybe normalized being somewhere in the
2.65% to 2.75% range or 2.46% now. Is there a certain loan-to-deposit ratio you think you need to have or level of
rate? How do we -- just trying to think through how we think about NIM going forward.
MARIANNE LAKE: I mean, we are -- we're at -- Fed funds are 175 to 200 right now, so we're not anywhere yet
close to normal rates. And so when we think about what we've talked about normalizing NIM, we're thinking about
it more through the cycle, adjusted for new liquidity rules and everything else. So we have a number of further
rate hikes to go before we reach that point. But we are, on a core basis -- and remember, we have a fairly sizable
market balance sheet, but on the core basis, we are continuing to see NIM expansion in line with expectations
and moving up towards that. So we would expect to see expansion year-over-year, moving towards that level but
not getting there yet.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
ERIKA NAJARIAN, MD AND HEAD OF US BANKS EQUITY RESEARCH, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH, RESEARCH
DIVISION: My question is on the regulatory process this year under the new leadership. I'm wondering if there's
anything that you could share with us that you've observed in terms of change, whether or not it was how
receptive or not the regulators were during the comment period for the SEB and also during the CCAR process.
Was there any marked or observable change in the processes this year versus previous years?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would say, on the comment period for the SEB, obviously, during the comment
period, the regulators are quiet, so it wasn't a 2-way dialogue during that period. We would expect the 2-way
dialogue to start now that the comment period is over and the industry -- and bilateral letters have been
submitted. I will say, going back to comments I think I've made previously, that I remain constructive about the
willingness for the current leadership to pay attention and take on board those comments. And if you look at the
proposal that was sent out for comment, not only did it have a large number of questions that they were asking for
feedback on, but the actual proposal was very similar to what we had been understanding was the intention in
speeches that go back a fair way, which is to say that it feels like we're still making the sausage rather than this is
a done deal. And so we're very optimistic that the comments will be taken on board, and you know what they are.
Volatility was evident in spades in this test, opaqueness, G-SIB. We can go through them. I'm sure we will. So we
remain optimistic that the comments -- sorry, the bilateral discussions will start now. I would say -- or the
industry-wide discussions will start now. I would say, on CCAR, it felt status quo to prior years. It is not to say that
it's not constructive. It's just it didn't -- it felt like there is a growth bias.
ERIKA NAJARIAN: And just my follow-up question, the pushback that I'm getting from a lot of investors on bank
stocks is that we are long in the tooth in the economic cycle. Clearly, the strong activity levels that you posted this
quarter and the credit metrics that you posted would suggest otherwise. And I'm wondering, both Jamie and
Marianne, how you would respond to that pushback, that now is not the time to invest in banks because we are
late in the game from an economic standpoint.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I mean, I would say 2 things, which is, while this cycle is older than, essentially, typically
cycles had been, growth over the last decade has been lower through the recovery. So there is plenty, potentially,
of room to play. And as we look at all the economic data, not just here in the U.S. but also globally, there are no
real signs of fragility. And I know people are staring at a flat yield curve, and we would say that, that flat yield
curve is a bear flattening, good flattening from bank profitability perspective and not some looming risk of a
recession embedded in it, so on premium, still negative; real policy rates, still at 0; credit, very benign. That said,
we are in cyclical businesses, no doubt. And so we are preparing, and we will be ready when the cycle turns. And
no doubt, there will be impact from that. But through the cycle, I think we've proven that our business model will
produce strong shareholder returns and among best-in-class performance.
Page 5 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Mayo of Wells Fargo Securities.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO, MD, HEAD OF U.S. LARGE-CAP BANK RESEARCH & SENIOR ANALYST,
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC, RESEARCH DIVISION: Can you hear me?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: Just I wanted to follow up on that last question. If Jamie could respond, too. I
mean, Marianne, you said the macro was very supportive. You sound very positive. On the other hand, the
10-year treasury yield has flashed some warning signs to a variety of parties. So Jamie, we had the tax cut.
We've been waiting for the extra boost to the economy, whether it's capital expenditures or whatever. Do you
think the economy is accelerating, it's still on steady footing, it's the same or maybe it's slowing down? And how
should we think about the 10-year -- or how do you think about the 10-year? And how do you manage to a flatter
yield curve?
JAMES DIMON: Yes. So just real quickly, I mean, Marianne said it. We've had almost 9, 10 years of growth of
2%, averaging 20% over the 10 years. We really should have been closer to 40%. We have a lot of evidence that
this slack in the system is being finally -- people going back to workforce. The consumer balance sheet is in good
shape. Capital expenditures are going up. Household formation is going up. Homebuilding is in short supply. The
banking system is very, very healthy compared to the past. Consumer confidence and business confidence are
very high, albeit off their highs, probably because of some of them are trade. So if you're looking for potholes out
there, there are not a lot of things out there, and growth is accelerating. And of course, things are always a little
bit different. My own point of view is that the 10-year -- the 10-year, I wouldn't say that it has to happen the way
it's happened every time -- the last time. I just think that's a mistake. And the Fed is reversing the balance sheet. I
think it's very easy that rates can go up -- the 10-year rates can go up in a healthy environment. In history, we've
had rates going up where you have a healthy environment. It's not always true that the 10-year going up is bad.
MARIANNE LAKE: Right. I would also say that the shape of the curve is correlated to Fed funds in a tightening
cycle. And that is what we're seeing. So while there are other factors weighing potentially on the 10-year in terms
of still very accommodative central bank policy, particularly in the Bank of Japan and the ECB, obviously, trade is
not necessarily constructed just in terms of a narrative for short-term underfunded pensions going into bonds.
There are some technicals, but fundamentally, what you're seeing in terms of the flattening is pretty typical of a
tightening cycle. And as long as it's accompanied with solid to strong economic growth, it doesn't concern us at
this point. And in fact, as we've been pointing out, we are still levered towards front-end rates from a profitability
perspective, and we do expect the curve to steepen over time.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR, SENIOR MD, SENIOR RESEARCH ANALYST & FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCH
ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI INSTITUTIONAL EQUITIES, RESEARCH DIVISION: Just one follow-up on the
competition conversation. I just want to see -- your loan growth decelerated, but it was in line with your 7% to 8%
goal, your loan beta capture. What you're getting on the pricing side is actually a little bit better than what you've
given up on the deposit side. So that all seems fine, but this is the first time I remember putting that comment
about the competition. Are you still okay with the 7% to 8% goal? And maybe just an add-on to that. I'm just
curious if part of the competition has anything to do with the private credit market. That seems to be growing
pretty strongly.
MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say just a tiny little correction. Our outlook was 6% to 7% core loan growth
excluding the CIB. We're at 7% now. Things are still moving ahead in line with that. I would also just point out that
it is an outlook, not a target. So while we still feel like that is our outlook at this point, we obviously are going to
make the right decisions based upon the environment that we're in. Competitively, the private credit market for
Commercial Real Estate, for leverage lending is competitive. But so are -- there are also the mainstream
competitors. So it's just that the environment is pretty constructive and everybody is trying to get to -- access to
the high-quality assets. And so margins are under pressure. And we will make sure we're getting the right returns
for the risk we're taking.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR: Got you, okay. And then to follow up on the expense side. If you did $16 billion times 4,
it would be $64 billion. Your outlook is $62 billion. But a lot of those were good expenses on better volumes. And
are you still on track, in your mind, for the overhead ratio goals? I don't want to overly focus on the dollar amount.
MARIANNE LAKE: There's a couple of things. The $62 billion -- remember, the $62 billion was before the impact
of expense gross-up. So the actual full year outlook was $63 billion -- about $63 billion, including them. This
quarter included a onetime item, the $174 million on the legal entity liquidation. We knew about that so -Page 6 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

obviously. So it was in our number, but you can't annualize it. You can't sort of times it by 4. So you're absolutely
right, as you look out for the full year, to the degree that we would be above our outlook of $63 billion, it will be
largely driven, if not exclusively driven, by higher performance-related compensation on higher revenues, with the
only other caveat that, as you probably know, we are waiting, as I'm sure you are, for when the FDIC surcharge is
taken away. The FDIC anticipated that would be in the middle of the year this year, but that is now potentially at
some risk to moving out into the third or fourth quarter. So while that could have an impact on this year, to answer
your broader question of are we still on track for our expense overhead ratios, yes.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Saul Martinez of UBS.
SAUL MARTINEZ, MD & ANALYST, UBS INVESTMENT BANK, RESEARCH DIVISION: So just following on the
theme of economics and policy. To what extent do you see trade friction, geopolitical concerns, those things
starting to impact client sentiment, whether it's institutional or corporate clients? And ultimately, do you see that -or how do you gauge that as being a risk to global growth and U.S. growth?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would say, so far, where we are is that trade is firmly part of the risk narrative. So it's
definitely, as Jamie said, on the psyche of people, but it is not, at this point, causing them to change the strategic
actions and decisions that they're making, but clearly part of the conversation. And as currently outlined, it's more
of that than it is a real impact to sort of the global macroeconomic outlook. But that isn't to say that uncertainty
can't ultimately lead to more challenges or slower growth because confidence is a really important part of not just
the business investment cycle but also the financial market stability. So at this point, it's more of a risk narrative
than it is an actual driver, but it is important that, that uncertainty is taken off the table.
SAUL MARTINEZ: Okay. And if I could just ask a quick follow-up, and I apologize if you addressed it earlier, a lot
of multitasking this morning. But on the Markets side, you did much better than what Daniel suggested in his
update in terms of year-on-year being flattish overall. Can you just give us a sense of what changed in the last
month of the quarter?
JAMES DIMON: It got better.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I'm going to say yes, in a nutshell, it got better. But let me just give you the context. The
context is, as you will recall, as we ended the first quarter, there were some bouts of volatility and clients became
more cautious, and that carried over into the first half of this quarter. And so while activity was fine, it wasn't as
strong. In the second half of the quarter, that generally faded. Activity levels picked up, and I would say there
were more catalysts. And ironically, one of the more catalysts, when you're thinking about -- trading volatility or
intraday volatility or volleyball trade is part of that. Emerging market idiosyncratic events are part of that, the
European sovereign [SLE] situation. So there's just more catalysts in the market and, just generally, more client
participation.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Betsy...
MARIANNE LAKE: Sorry, just to finish that to make sure that no one is confused. It was pretty broad-based. It
was pretty consistent throughout the second half of the quarter, and it wasn't a lot of one-off large trades.
OPERATOR: And our next question is from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK, MD, MORGAN STANLEY, RESEARCH DIVISION: Jamie, I wanted to ask about the
China investment. I know that you put in the press release that you announced this quarter plans for a more
significant investment in China. I just wanted to understand the timing. Is this something that's over the next year
or this is longer term, 3- to 5-year? And if you could give us a sense as to how much is in your control versus
needing regulatory approval from folks over there, et cetera?
JAMES DIMON: Right. So I'll just make a broader business comment for a second. We don't run -- because we
didn't really answer Mike Mayo's question. We don't run the business guessing about when there might be a
recession because we know there's going to be one. We already priced the recession. We like to blame clients,
bankers, cards, accounts, products, services. That's how we run the business. Some of the decisions you make
are portfolio decisions. You could add to your mortgage portfolio or you could sell it. You can reduce your growth
in Auto loan if you think the credit is bad. And of course, we will do that when the time comes, but we'll still be
adding accounts. And so to me, I don't worry as much about the 10-year bond or all these various things. We only
-- we try to manage those risks. We want more clients. Obviously, we've been winning and want to do a very good
job to them in products and services. China, it's a long-term story, okay? You're not -- we're not looking for any
immediate thing. Over -- in the next 12 years or so, China will -- internal markets, maybe their bond market, stock
market is probably very close, equal the size of the United States of America. Therefore, we want to be able to do
Page 7 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

everything we do here in China. We can do a lot of that in Hong Kong today, but we can't do it in Shanghai. So
we've applied for licenses. Both -- and obviously, we need permission ultimately from our regulators and from
their regulators, so it's totally in their control. And it may or may not be affected by trade, but I look at this as a
point in time -- it is what it is. Eventually, we'll get these licenses. We eventually hope we'll be a large, strong
competitor in Shanghai. Remember, we already do a lot of that business out -- for Chinese companies around the
world, for Chinese companies in Hong Kong. I mean, there are a lot of people going into China. So we're looking
for the full set of licenses to do what we need to do for Chinese companies. And ultimately, I think it will be good
for China to have a company like JPMorgan on equity, debt, credit transparency, governance issues inside China.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: But right now, today, the ability to operate in Shanghai?
JAMES DIMON: Well, no. Look, we already do deposits. We do certain banking. What we can't do is equity, debt
and trading of equity and debt, okay? So if we get this license one day, at 51%, we'll be able to make the -- and
with the licenses, we'll be able to do basic equity underwriting, equity sales and trading, research, debt
underwriting, debt sales and trading. We could do all of that today in Hong Kong. But remember, Chinese
companies, they can do it in Shanghai or they can do it in Hong Kong or they can do it in London or they can do it
in New York. We just want the full capabilities.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
GERARD S. CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC, RESEARCH DIVISION: Marianne, can you
share with us -- and correct me if I'm wrong, I think you guys have given us some color in the past about the
impact of the Fed taking down their balance sheet over the next 3 to 5 years by a couple of trillion dollars, that it
will impact your deposit side of the balance sheet. Can you give us an update of where that stands today?
MARIANNE LAKE: Well -- so the Fed has been on a pretty well-telegraphed path reducing their balance sheet by
about $50 billion a quarter. We talked about the fact that if you take $1.5 trillion out of the system, if you look at -as the Fed has grown its balance sheet, about half of that will ultimately impact deposits, and our share of it would
be 10%. So we talked about, potentially, that kind of $50 billion to $75 billion of deposit outflows over the several
years it would take to reduce that. But primarily, they would be, not exclusively but primarily, nonoperating and
therefore, limited impact on liquidity basis. And so it's playing out textbook right now.
GERARD S. CASSIDY: Okay. And then as a follow-up, I know you've touched on this increased competition. Can
you give us maybe some more details, in the Commercial Real Estate and the residential mortgage area, what
you're actually seeing? Is it just pricing? Or is it now loan covenants? Is it loan to values? Any further color there?
MARIANNE LAKE: So residential mortgage correspond -- in particular is pricing, pricing, pricing. And so we will
see share if the pricing goes to what we would consider to be not sufficient to return shareholder value. In the
Commercial Real Estate space, I would say it is primarily pricing, so spreads are under a lot of pressure. And the
companies that I've heard, it's GSEs, it's insurance companies, it's nonbank financial institutions. It's a little bit
less credit turns, but still pretty robust, albeit there's -- we are seeing a tiny shift to the right in LTVs. We're not
going there, by the way, but I would call it pretty modest. So I would say, generally, turns are holding up quite
well.
JAMES DIMON: And the competition issue, I think it's good for the country, the United States, that we have a fully
competitive field in card, mortgage, retail, asset management, commercial banking, investment banking, sales
and trading. There are strong competitors everywhere. It's just recognizing that. That's all it is. It's a good thing.
It's called capitalism.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Al Alevizakos of HSBC.
ALEVIZOS ALEVIZAKOS, ANALYST, HSBC, RESEARCH DIVISION: I've got one question and a follow-up. I do
care about the geographical split of the IB performance. You mentioned that there were certain catalysts, and you
actually mentioned both the Italian situation but also the niche markets. So I want to know whether the strength
was driven by the U.S. or whether it was specific kind of areas that were weaker or stronger. And then my
follow-up is, do you feel that you are picking up more strength (inaudible)
MARIANNE LAKE: I'm really -- Al, I'm sorry...
JAMES DIMON: It would be really helpful if you guys weren't on your cellphone.
MARIANNE LAKE: Sorry, Al. I'm really, really sorry, but we -- actually, you were breaking up, and so I didn't catch
most of that question.
Page 8 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMES DIMON: Where is the IB doing well, international, U.S., Asia, Italy?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So I would say across regions. Equities, strong performance across regions. While
there were more catalysts this quarter, so you've mentioned Italy, I think, none of those were particular drivers. So
we did fine on all of those as well, as I mentioned. So I would say broad-based, gaining share, we think, in some
areas in equities, cash and prime in particular and holding our own elsewhere, and I would say solid performance
across the FICC spectrum.
JAMES DIMON: And investment...
MARIANNE LAKE: And Investment Banking. Yes, gaining share in Investment Banking, but obviously, you can't
look at any one quarter.
ALEVIZOS ALEVIZAKOS: And the second part -- I'm sorry that you couldn't listen before -- is, do you feel that
you've started taking market share from the European competitors in the U.S., especially the ones that are
deleveraging?
MARIANNE LAKE: Well, I mean, I would say that if you look back over the course of the last couple of years, you
have seen some share shift from European banks to U.S. banks broadly. In the prime space, I would say U.S.
prime incumbents are gaining some share. But it's not a particularly new trend, and it's not the dominant trend.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR, MD, DEUTSCHE BANK AG, RESEARCH DIVISION: To follow up on the net interest
margin, you mentioned ex the Markets business, it was still increasing. And I was wondering if you could size the
magnitude of the NIM increase, linked-quarter, on a core basis ex Markets.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So linked-quarter reported, down 2 basis points because of low Markets NII and higher
Markets assets of $20 billion; core, up 8 basis points.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR: Okay, that's helpful. And then just separately, within CIB, the net charge-offs went
up. Is that just some of the cleanup in energy? I know you mentioned that there was a reserve release related to
energy, but you had a little blip in the charge-offs there, and I just wanted to get some color on that.
JAMES DIMON: Charge-offs in credit.
MARIANNE LAKE: Charge-offs. So in CIB, the charge-offs were driven by 2 names, and the principal one was
the remaining piece of the Steinhoff loan that we sold this quarter. We had a reserve release against it that was
larger.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
GERARD S. CASSIDY: Just a follow-up, Marianne. On the capital return that you guys were approved for in
terms of the share repurchase, is that going to be spread out evenly over the next 4 quarters or will be more
front-end loaded?
MARIANNE LAKE: So we haven't disclosed that, but if you look at our historical pattern, it's pretty even.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: Just a question on CECL. I think Jamie mentioned in the past that CECL is not a big
deal for you guys. And maybe you could explain why and what kind of prep work and what you're thinking about
as you work to adopt that over the next couple of years.
MARIANNE LAKE: Sure. Well, I mean, look, CECL is not a big deal insofar as we're getting ready for it. I will tell
you that we haven't disclosed an adjustment number on the basis that we're still working through the modeling
and the data. And it is more complicated perhaps operationally to get everything lined up than you might think.
We're going to intend to be running some stuff in parallel next year, so we'll be able to give you much more color
next year. Generally speaking, as you move to life of loan losses, it won't shock you to know that we will have an
adjustment to our reserves through equity. It will be driven most likely by any of the portfolios that have longer
weighted average life versus incurred loss models. Card would be the most notable; to a lesser extent, unfunded
wholesale commitments. But it will be manageable in the context of the firm. It goes through equity. And then if
you think about the economics, the cash flows, the NPV of these loans doesn't change.
Page 9 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMES DIMON: That's actually what my comment relates to.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. It doesn't change the economics of the loans. You upfront a little bit of reserves you get
paid for over time. We don't think it's going to fundamentally shift the dynamics, but that will play out.
JAMES DIMON: We don't make economic decisions based upon accounting.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: Are there any asset classes where it's shorter under CECL than under incurred loss
model?
MARIANNE LAKE: It's hard because it's life of loan, so it's hard to have a shorter -- it's difficult to imagine that a
life of loan could be shorter that an incurred loss, so no, not really. But for us, the reason why it's pretty limited -not to say there's no other impact, but the reason why it will be mostly driven by the areas I mentioned is
because, in most of our wholesale spaces and so many of our other products, we are covered for multiple years,
if not total life of loan, at this point.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
ERIKA NAJARIAN: A quick question -- follow-up on Card retention. You mentioned that rewards redemption is a
sign of engagement. I'm wondering if you could share with us -- once redemption hits a certain level in terms of
the number of points, so the number of points remaining may not be enough to redeem a trip or whatever, what is
the retention level then?
MARIANNE LAKE: I'm not sure that I totally follow the question. I just...
JAMES DIMON: They're already -- they're always -- they're constantly creating rewards points, and they're
constantly using those points. And when they use rewards points, some points cost us more than other points.
And the pace of the usage will change economics a little bit, but basically, it's still kind of what we expect over
time.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. And remember that in a very, very oversimplified model of the universe, we would want
an extraordinarily high level of redemption. We are giving these rewards to customers because we think that they
are, and they indeed are, perceiving great value in them. And so we're just continuing to observe that as the mix
changes.
OPERATOR: And we have no further questions at this time.
MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you very much, you guys.
JAMES DIMON: Thanks for joining. Talk to you all soon.
MARIANNE LAKE: Bye-bye.
OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
Page 10 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020180714ee7d001rx

Page 11 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

