Q2 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
22,475 words
13 July 2012
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
Presentation
SARAH YOUNGWOOD, HEAD, IR, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO: Thank you for joining us early in the morning. A
few announcements. Please turn off your cell phones. All materials are now available on our website. We will
open the floor to Q&A at the end of the presentation. During the Q&A sessions, a few things that will be important,
because some of the people are in the room. Please wait for the microphone, and say your name to make sure
that the people on the phone know who is speaking. For the convenience of others, in terms of follow-ups, if you
have several follow-ups, we may have to come back to you towards the end, and then we'll go to questions to the
telephones, and last point, we know that Wells Fargo is having their call at 10.00. We have set up a room. It's 207
on this floor and a few break-out rooms for those who want to listen from here. With that, in terms of the audio.
Please take a look at the forward-looking statements, and I'm going to turn it to Jamie.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO: Sarah, thank you very much. I appreciate you
all coming today. We have a whole bunch of presentations to take you through.
I'll start with me. I'll try to cover some of the high points. Unfortunately, I think you might have see this morning,
that we announced a restatement of the first quarter. Doug will describe it in detail, and Mike. We don't take it
lightly. We talked to our best advisors, accounting and legal and tried to do what we thought was right, and the
most conservative thing to do. Hopefully, this what is the SEC chairwoman herself would have done, if she had
seen all the same facts at the same time.
Today I'm going to cover, I'll just give you a quick overview. I'm going to talk about a whole bunch of significant
events, items in the quarter, which we will break out for you right in the front of the press release, give you an
update on the synthetic credit portfolio, talk a little bit about Treasury and CIO, there's some questions about it, so
I'm going to try to answer some of those. Our capital plans. I'm going to turn it over to Doug, who is going to take
you through the regular earnings presentation, though it's gotten slight more disclosures, and then Mike will give
you an update on the CIO task force, kind of the anatomy of the problem, all the good, the bad, the ugly of it.
The review is continuing, I should point out. It's being guided by the Board. If we find out more, it's always
possible, or anything different or material, we'll let you know as appropriate. If we do find out more, we will do the
right thing as we always try to do. One thing, which I would love people to focus on a little bit at one point, actually
look at the businesses, the six businesses, they have really good underlying performance. That, to me, is why
we're here, the main reason why we're here.
We've significantly reduced the total synthetic credit risk in CIO. It's down substantially. I'm going to give you
some real numbers and describe how we're going to manage that going forward, including the risks that are going
there. We've substantially taken all of the remaining synthetic credit positions, translated them to the IB. We put
them there because IB has the people, the expertise, the capacity, the trading platform, the market franchise to
effectively trade and manage these positions, and importantly, they can do it within their historical VaR and stress
risk limits levels. This is what they do, it's going to let the rest of the firm go back to do what it should be doing.
We have closed down synthetic credit trading in CIO. We'll no longer be doing it. I'll tell you one exception of one
short position we're keeping there. Our Fortress balance sheet remains completely intact. In fact, I would call it
undented. An extensive review has been conducted. Mike will take you through that. Very importantly, all of CIO
management has changed. Matt Zames is here. While you may know him professionally, but he also brought in a
lot of additional risk people, traders, finance officers to help manage the CIO area. And they've been through top
Page 1 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

to bottom, all the governance, reporting, limits, et cetera in CIO. We do believe these events are isolated to CIO,
and Mike will talk about it a little bit more.
These type of events are terrible, but there is one gratifying thing in them. As you find out that people come and
bring their best every day, we've had hundreds of people kind of working around the clock now for three months
to get this thing fixed, and wrestled down, and I think we've mostly accomplished that. And now we can focus on
our energy on what we do best, which is growing our businesses and serving our clients and communities around
the world. Hopefully after this is over, we will be a stronger Company for it. We did report net income of $5 billion
for the second quarter, that would have been $4.6 billion had it not been the restatement. Earnings of $1.21. The
first half, we'll earn $9.9 billion, that is not obviously unaffected by the restatements and the balance sheet and
capital ratios are not affected either.
In the second quarter, let me take you through each one of these items a little bit slowly. CIO trading losses, that's
the synthetic credit book, $4.4 billion. But in the first quarter, it was about $1.6 billion. Not hiding that. We're not
doing it, that's $1.6 billion in the first quarter which we moved $600 million by the restatement, $4.4 billion this
quarter. Corporate CIO securities gains, we announced that actually when we told you the first time about this
problem. We did not take additional securities gains.
All I want to point out here, is these are always broken out in the P&L. You can never hide them. We take them
generally for investment decisions, do you want to own or not own that security. We don't generally take them to
offset something like that, and I pointed out before, that taking gains is generally tax inefficient. Doesn't mean you
shouldn't do it, it's just generally tax inefficient.
Loan loss reserves came down by $2.1 billion. That's mostly in mortgage and credit card. That's exactly the same
conservative principles we used before. The good news is, charge-offs and delinquencies are coming down.
Reserves had to come down, and Doug's going to give you a little bit more information on that.
Investment bank had $750 million of DVA gains. We all know we don't consider that earnings. On corporate, we
expect a full recovery in the Bear Stearns note. Some of you may remember when Maiden Lane was done, when
the Fed took on $30 billion of Bear Stearns' assets we guaranteed the $30 billion of loss. Maiden Lane, they
completely repaid the Federal Reserve. We've now been paid $200 million. I think we get another $300 million
sometime in a couple weeks. We expect full recovery of the $1.2 billion plus interest, that's just writing the note
back up to what we expect to get in cash, plus interest over a little bit of time. I won't go through the capital ratios
here. I'm going to talk about them a little bit later.
Moving to the synthetic credit portfolio, the only other thing I would mention too, of the losses in synthetic credit, it
is kind of costly. The worst part of this whole thing, is when we started this thing, we knew we had these large
illiquid type of things to manage down, and we had $2 billion plus at that time. We have been reducing the risk
substantially, go through these numbers, but it's costly to do. It's costly to do. I'm going to give you the final
ultimate risk. We did get it down a little bit faster than we thought we might be able to do.
Number one, we're transferring about -- I'm going to give you rough, crude measures of risk here. They generally
are accurate, but this is in the trading book, so we're not going to disclose specific positions. The risk weighted
asset transfer to the IB, and this is a fairly decent measure of risk is about $30 billion. So their risk weighted asset
is up by $30 billion. It's down substantially from the peak, and it's about probably where it was on December 30,
so it went way up, it's come way down. We've significantly reduced net notionals and credit spread sensitivities.
We show you, the credit spread sensitivity, CS01 is how much you would gain or lose if credit spreads widened
by 1 basis point. You can see it's down from a peak of $51 billion to $7 billion. $7 billion is close to what I call a
norm.
We have a significant reduction in the on-the-run and the off-the-run basis, this is part of what we read about all
the time about the IG9. The IG9 itself is down around 70%. We reduced the basis risk between high yield and
high grade risk in Europe and the United States. These are the kind of risks that got built up, complex risk which
we wish we didn't have when we realized it was there. They're down by 70%, and what remains is not, in my
opinion, that big a deal. The residual portfolio that's transferred over to the IB is largely a delta-hedged tranche
portfolio. It's stuff they know how to do. They're better at it than [SEFO] is. It's still large. We're not saying it's not
large. It still could obviously could lose money or perhaps make money.
Some of the positions are currently cheap to theoretical. That's how they were when we inherited them, when
Matt Zames joined us, and I'm giving you within number here. Extreme simulated scenarios indicate a potential
loss between $800 million and $1.7 billion. This portfolio could make money. The extreme simulated losses are
things like a Euro zone crisis, a credit crunch and the 99.9% stress, statistical stress that have a loss about $1.4
billion. We do things as a box. I hope we don't have these losses at all. To help us a little bit in the quarter, we will
Page 2 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

have about a $900 million gain on swaps we have terminated against some of our TRuPS, but we think we're
pretty much done with the financial loss of this, and we can look at that gain.
I've already mentioned that we transferred to the IB and why. And there are already -- we're more actively trading
it than we were. If you look at the combined IB and synthetic credit portfolio risk within the IB historical, RWA as I
mentioned, went up by $30 billion, not that significant to them. Their VaR, I think it will be disclosed that the IB
VaR at the end of the month was -- the spot VaR was $74 million. The next day when we transferred over, July 2,
it went to $113 million. Well within the numbers we were used to, and comfortable. We've had as high as $200
million.
The remaining portfolio that we left at CIO is simple. It's an $11 billion short, basically liquidity indexes, it's
identified to offset some potential losses in a much larger AFS portfolio, asymmetric, one is marked-to-market,
one is not, so we're not worried about this. We getting one to far offset the loss of the other, and vice versa, but
we need to make separate decisions, do you want to own those investments or not own those investments. We
thought now was a rational time to keep a hedge on certain credit exposures around the world, particularly what
you see going now with the Euro zone. This hedge will come down over time. We don't intend to keep it there
necessarily forever. Obviously we'll make those decisions as we see fit. It will show a VaR, remember, it's $11
billion, it will have its own VaR, it's not hedged against anything. It's asymmetric, it'll have a VaR of like $135
million coming down over time. On it's own, it's about $34 billion of risk weighted assets.
The next page, I'm talking about some Treasury and CIO activities, kind of go through this. I suppose I should
point out, Treasury and CIO had been and always will be subordinated to the needs of the rest of the Company.
They can only invest when, where, how, why, for the needs of the Company. That involves how the duration they
invest in, involves the credit they invest in, involves what they invest in around the world. It's not the same
portfolio. It's a logical portfolio.
Why do we have it at all? We have $1.1 trillion in deposits. We've got $700 billion in loans. That would generally
be considered fairly conservative. We like making loans by the way. Between our acquisitions and the fact we're a
money centered bank, we get a lot of deposits in, we end up with a lot of extra deposits. The extra deposits are
$423 billion, plus equity, plus some of the net liabilities, give us $522 billion, that's not being lent out, that we have
to invest.
We actually split it in two pieces. Some companies do it differently. Some combine Treasury and CIO, most have
functions like this. The first piece is $199 billion, which we call Treasury deployment. We're going to make a
disclosure. It's on the balance sheet. It shows up as cash due at banks and sometimes government repo. Most of
that money is very short duration, most of it is in central banks around the world. Some of it is in government
repo. We have it there just because of liquidity, because we have a lot of money that comes in and out of this
Company every single day. We bank member nations, sovereign wealth funds, large companies, can easily
swing, $5 billion, $10 billion, $20 billion a day.
Treasury, CIO has $323 billion, it's down a little bit because we haven't been reinvesting the last -- we're waiting
to give Matt a little bit of time to figure out what he's got before he starts reinvesting, but it has an average rating
of AA and an average life of 3.7 years. I'm going to show you a little more detail on the next page. Post-transfer
pricing. We take all the assets, all the liabilities generated by the Company, so take loans and deposits, they're
constantly dynamically evaluated for their risk pricing, their duration and liquidity. And we generally then pay units,
market prices on what they did. To pay market prices, they have the right kind of incentive to grow or not grow
their balance sheet. They do not get gains, securities gains for excess returns and CIO. They get kind of market
rates at steady income. If you go back in the years, you saw we had a lot of income in CIO. Back then, we told
you that was going to get very high rates, we didn't pass on to the businesses because it wasn't going to
continue.
So CIO invests to achieve a desired asset liability duration. We obviously change this all the time. All the
companies worry about this. I should point out our two biggest exposures are credit and interest rates, and this is
the place we kind of manage the most part the interest rate exposure. Currently, if you ask to be duration neutral,
to the best of our ability to offset all interest rate exposure, we would have to invest this portfolio in an average
interest duration of 3.7 years. It is invested currently at an interest duration of 1.2 years. What that means is that
our balance sheet will reprice quicker, the assets will reprice quicker than the liabilities. And that is disclosed in a
statement called earnings risk, that says if interest rates go up 100 basis points, earnings would go up by $2.4
billion. That's how you generate that kind of number. Obviously, you could change this over time, and I will put
this in the conservative category.
Obviously the composition of our balance sheet will change of time, loans will go up. We need to meet the new
LCR and Basel III requirements, CIO has reinvestment here of $40 billion. They have to invest, every year,
Page 3 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

probably, if you want to estimate it, an additional $20 billion to $30 billion of additional deposits. That flow will be
invested in the things we think have the most logic for the Company in terms of liquid asset buffers, return of risk
weighted assets, et cetera. Loans will be our priority, by the way. This is not our priority. We want to grow our
businesses, but we do have this money to invest. Obviously, the more liquid assets we buy, we might reduce NII
a little bit, but it also reduces RWA, and there's not a complete offset but it's close. Over time, there's a pretty
good chance we'll increase duration. Rates are going to go up again, you'll probably see us go longer in the curve
and earn back more NII. So this is where we try to manage that all the time, and do the right fairly conservative
thing for the Company.
Next page shows you the investments. I've already mentioned kind of the green line at the top, the Treasury
deployment and the cash deposit with banks is mostly central banks, reverse repo, I told you, government
securities, they do have some very short-term AFS securities and then you can see below how we break out this.
I'm not going to go through the detail here. If you want, later, on you can call Investor Relations, get some more
detail. I want to point out two things. 80% of it is either government backed, US government agency credit or
better.
The only other thing I want to point out is every investment has risk. This concept that somehow you can buy
Treasuries and think you might not lose money, you can buy credit, you might not lose money. You can buy
mortgages, you might not lose money. Any of them, you have to make a decision of where you want to put your
Company in this, and the future's always different. Now that we have Basel III, you might know that Basel III
accumulated OCI goes into your capital. So obviously you have to invest, being careful about how much capital
might swing around. As time goes on, we will [move on] through this book a little bi We still think it's fairly
conservative.
On the capital planning side, the first comp shows you net income that was just reported, $4.96 billion. These are
your analyst estimates now. I'm taking your estimates for the Company from third quarter and fourth quarter and
you can see your estimates for the 2013 and 2014. I just want to point out, we hope to beat all of them. All those
numbers on that page, can't promise that, but we hope to. The next line down, RWA is our estimate, we're
constantly estimating Basel 2.5 with NPR, et cetera in there, and we have run-off and model mitigation, a whole
bunch of things. That's our best estimate today.
If you look at the bottom line, our Tier 1 common goes from $7.9 billion today, this is no stock buyback, $8.5
billion the third quarter, $8.8 billion in the fourth quarter, $10.5 billion by the end of 2013, $12 billion by the end of
2014. IE, we have a lot of capital generation. That's why we think it's a logical thing to buy back stock. You could
buy back, if you said, if you were my Board of Directors, you would say, how much stock you want to buy back,
we can get to 9% Basel III by the end of 2013 and buy $23 billion, we can get to 9.5% and buy $15 billion. So
clearly, we have the ability.
What are we going to do? We would like to buy back stock, but after discussions with the Federal Reserve, we
need to work with the Federal Reserve, the Board has determined not to buy back stock until two things take
place. We finish the Board review, I think it's a logical thing, so we come to the conclusion with the Board review
and we find no other major stuff, which I don't expect to find, and we submit a new capital plan to the Fed, only as
to repurchase, not to dividends. (inaudible) And hopefully, if all goes well, we can start buying back stocks early in
the fourth quarter. The dividend will continue to be 30%. In the past, we've said to you all that we hope to have a
30% pay-out ratio. It is possible when you look at these numbers, strategically, you might raise that ratio some
years down the road, but we'll decide that when we get there. And we're in a strong trajectory to meet the 9.5%,
we have plenty of capital and plenty of capital generation.
In spite of this accident, this event does not change what I think has been a bedrock of JPMorgan Chase for the
last five or six years. We believe in a Fortress balance sheet, and conservative balance sheet management. We
always believe in high capital. Through this whole crisis, you never saw our capital go down. We believe in
conservative funding, I won't go through detail there, a lot of liquidity. Strong reserves. I would tell you, we believe
generally in conservative accounting principles. We don't like to deceive ourselves about whether they're earning
money or not, and obviously, this thing is also a little bit of an exception there. I already mentioned the bond, we
have fairly conservative balance sheet management and asset liability management.
Our earnings, the real reason we're here is to grow our Company. We think we have a strong and diversified
business model. It's been a source of strength to this company, not a source of weakness, particularly in the
storm. We have great earnings power, we still think the earnings power, if you adjust for all kind of the ins and
outs, about $24 billion a year. We think we have some of the best franchises in our businesses in the world,
almost every single one of them. They may not be the best, but I think they're damn close, and we think we have
Page 4 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

a very disciplined and detailed management team, all of whom are sorry that we missed this thing. The way we
run our business day-to-day, we have pretty good businesses and management teams.
This slide I like to look at because it just shows the buildup over the last six years on our book value, our tangible
book value. I think our book value is clean, with strong reserves and strong accounting and good loans and good
assets and things like that. You can see throughout this whole crisis, this never stops growing. So we were able
to grow in difficult times and I think it's a sign of strength, not a sign of weakness. It was driven by diversified
businesses, confident investing in businesses, building what we consider to be market leading franchises and
maintain our conservative principles.
So to wrap it up, we are not proud at this moment but we are proud of our company. We're not making light of this
error, but we do think it's an isolated event. One of the reasons you do hold capital is for known and unknown
events. Obviously this one we shot ourselves in the foot. That is one reason you have capital, for things you are
surprised about. We learned a lot. I can tell you this has shaken our Company to the core, and what happened
here is that most of the management team went back and said let's redouble our efforts to make sure we're
running a great Company. We're granular, thoughtful, disciplined in every possible.
We could never say that we won't make mistakes. We operate in a risk business. So say you're doing -- you think
precisely that does not mean we make mistakes, hopefully they'll be small and few and far between. We have a
great franchise which we never stopped growing in this crisis, serving our clients through tough times and we
think we have great growth opportunities going forward. With that, I will turn it over to Doug Braunstein, who will
take you through the regular earnings presentation. Thank you.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO: Thanks, Jamie. So I'm going to go through the earnings
deck, so if you turn to that. On page 1, Jamie really covered this page. Just to highlight, $5 billion of net income,
$1.21 per share. We did announce this morning that we're restating our first-quarter earnings, as Jamie said. The
restatement is really based upon recent facts that we've uncovered regarding the CIO trader's intent, as they
were marking the book, and as a result, we questioned the integrity of those trader marks. We felt as a result of
that, it was both prudent and a conservative approach to restate our first quarter.
We've also as a result of that determined we had a material weakness in CIO's internal controls over the valuation
of the synthetic credit portfolio, as of March 31. We believe, however, we've substantially remediated that
weakness at the end of the second quarter. Mike's going to provide you the details on how we uncovered trader
intent, but from a financial point of view let me give you four facts and then we're going to move on. The first is the
loss of the portfolio prior to the restatement for this quarter would have been $5.1 billion. After the move to $4.4
billion, in total, year-to-date $5.8 billion in losses. Second, we effectively moved $460 million after tax to the
synthetic credit portfolio from the second quarter into the first. Third, year-to-date earnings, $2.41, unaffected by
the restatement, restated earnings was $1.19 in the first quarter, $1.21 this quarter, effectively a move of $0.12
approximately per quarter and then the last, as Jamie said, year-to-date revenues, year-to-date net income,
year-to-date capital, year-to-date balance sheet are not impacted by the restatement.
So with that, let me turn you to page 2. I want to focus on the $22.9 billion of revenue. If you excluded the
significant items that impact revenue in the quarter, revenue would actually have been $25 billion for the quarter.
That revenue strength really came from some strong performance across a number of our client-facing
businesses, as Jamie talked about.
Let me highlight a couple of factors. First is, we had positive loan growth again. We have added $40 billion in
loans on an absolute basis in the last year, that's after almost $23 billion of run-off in our mortgage portfolio that
we have told you we have intended to do and are doing every quarter. We had record commercial bank loan
balances this quarter, up 17%. Business banking origination, up 14%. Small business loans, up 35%. Mortgage
originations up 29%. Strong growth in AM, up 36% year over year. Trade finance loans and TSS up 28% year
over year. So good underlying fundamental loan growth.
We've also had some favorable franchise trends that continued. We continue to be the number one global IB fee
provider this quarter. Deposit balances in CDB up 8% year-on-year. Sales volume in card up 12% year-on-year,
so very good underlying fundamentals. Return on tangible common equity for the quarter was 15%.
If you turn to page 3, the Investment Bank, we've circled net income of $1.9 billion for the second quarter. That's
on $6.8 billion. As we've done the last couple of quarters, because we've had significant item related to DVA, I'm
going to talk about it, excluding the $750 million gain in DVA. $6 billion in revenue for the quarter, $1.4 billion in
net income. Return on equity of 15%. IB fees were $1.2 billion this quarter, down 35% year-on-year. That largely
reflects declining transaction volume and activity in the quarter, but as I said, and you see in appendix page 23,
we maintained our number-one share.
Page 5 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Markets revenue, $4.5 billion, down about 15% year-on-year, 30% quarter-on-quarter following what as you know
was a very strong first quarter. Fixed income revenue of $3.5 billion. That largely reflected weaker market
conditions, but we did have strong client flows in the quarter. Equity revenue of $1 billion, that reflects cash
volumes that were weak. We had very strong results of our equity derivatives business and prime services,
despite low spreads, had a good quarter. You look at the expense number, it's down, but it's primarily driven by
compensation expense. Comp to revenue ratio is 35% year-to-date, which is consistent with the guidance we had
given you at the start of the year. Just a reminder, as Jamie mentioned, Q3 will have the impact of the synthetic
credit portfolio in VaR for the IB.
If you turn to page 5, Consumer & Business Banking. Circled net income of $950 million, that's down about 14%
year-on-year, flat essentially quarter-on-quarter. Net revenues of $4.3 billion. Revenues primarily were impacted
by Durbin on a year over year basis but again, there were some very favorable business trends, so I said
balances were up 8%. We believe that is significantly above the industry averages. Business Banking originations
were up 14%, actually June, the month of June, we had our highest production month in a number of years in
Business Banking. And our loan pipeline in Business Banking today is at its highest point in history.
Client investment assets are up 5% in this business. We opened year over year 1 million more checking
accounts, 2.5 million more active mobile customers, 45,000 new clients in CPC, so real strong underlying
fundamental growth. Expenses continue to be impacted by all the investment spend we've been doing, and I think
if you look forward to overhead ratio in Q3, we're likely to return to the ratio we had in Q1, rather than this quarter.
Deposit margins were down this quarter, 6 basis points. We continue to see that margin pressure. We talked
about it for a number of quarters. That's a function of the lower reinvestment environment opportunities that we
have. It's consistent with the $400 million in net income guidance that we said for the full year related to this
deposit margin pressure, but the aggregate NII was actually flat quarter-on-quarter, and that really reflects the
margin decrease being offset by deposit growth.
If you turn to page 6, Mortgage Production and Servicing, circled net income of $600 million. Production revenue,
so three parts, production revenue of $1.6 billion. Volumes of $44 billion, up almost 30% year-on-year. Record
retail originations, largely driven by refinancing activity, including HARP. Margins are down on a
quarter-over-quarter basis. We expect them to continue to trend lower, could be another 25 to 50 basis points,
really depending on the rate and refinancing environment.
You'll see repurchase losses in the quarter of $10 million. Settlements were $225 million in the quarter. That's a
function of reduced repurchase demands in mortgage, reduced pipeline of demands and improvement in the
repurchase rates that we experienced this quarter. Based on this and our lifetime estimates for repurchases,
which was $3.2 billion going into the quarter, we really believe we reached an inflection point that we had talked
about and was inevitable over time, and as a result of that, we reduced our reserves for repurchases by about
$215 million this quarter, and if these current trends and our estimates for projected repurchases continue, we
would expect the net repurchase number to be approximately zero for the next several quarters.
On the servicing side, you pretax income of $65 million. It continues to reflect very high levels of servicing costs.
We've not seen the decline that we had expected in terms of default servicing expense for a number of reasons.
That was offset this quarter by some favorable MSR risk management results.
If you turn to page 7, the Real Estate portfolio. Net income of approximately $700 million for the quarter. Revenue
was down 15% year over year. It's in line with the estimates that we had given you. It is a function of that run-off,
the $23 billion year over year. Charge-offs circled number of about $700 million. The charge-off rate's down 28
basis points quarter-on-quarter.
Delinquencies continued to decline. A result of that is that we reduced our loss forecast going forward. We
released a $1.250 billion in reserves this quarter. I'll talk about that in a little more detail in a couple of pages.
We're also reducing our guidance for net charge-offs going forward to $750 million or below on a quarterly basis.
Page 8. Card services and auto. Consolidated net income of $1 billion for the quarter. That's down about 7%
year-on-year. It's on revenues of $4.5 billion in the quarter. We are continuing to see some positive underlying
trends in this business. I said sales remain strong, up 12% year-on-year. On new product sales, so for Freedom,
Sapphire and Ink, sales volume up 20% year-on-year, and we continue to believe we're gaining market share in
the Card business.
Auto originations up 7% year-on-year. And very strong merchant processing revenue growth, up 13%
year-on-year. Credit costs for the quarter, $730 million. That reflects $750 million reserve release. That release
incorporated a policy change for our troubled debt restructured loans, TDRs. And as a result of that, we moved
forward our charge-off on the loans from 120 days from 180.
Page 6 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

And that results in an acceleration of charge-offs of about $90 million in the quarter. No P&L impact, because we
were fully reserved for those loans. But if you include that policy change, charge-off rates circled at the bottom is
4.32%. If you exclude it, it was a little over 4%, 4.03%. Delinquencies also in that circled number on the quarter,
2.13%, and I -- we went back as far as 2003. This is the lowest rate we've experienced in delinquencies during
that period of time.
So with that, I do want to take a moment on the next page, page 9, to talk about the credit trends. So we put here
second quarter, first quarter, and a year ago. And then provided at the bottom trends around net charge-offs. So
we continue to see positive trends. Charge-offs are down $260 million in Mortgage, $550 million in Card year over
year, and those trends are demonstrated on the chart at the bottom, and delinquencies, as I said, are down. The
reserve actions that we took, as Jamie said, were effectively necessary to remain neutral, given that improved
credit environment, and the reduced expectations that we have for losses.
And if you look at -- the one number I think is particularly interesting is loan loss reserves to annual net
charge-offs. That's this quarter's charge-offs, multiplied by 4. And those essentially stayed flat quarter-on-quarter,
even after the reserve releases. So we think we continue to be appropriately and conservatively reserved in these
two portfolios, and across all of our portfolios, but if the current trends continued, we would expect to see further
reductions in the Mortgage book reserves, and just remember, a normalized credit environment, you would
expect to see about 12 months of charge-offs. You can do the math, and we are substantially in excess of that
number today. As it relates to Card, I think, given where we are in the cycle, you can expect reserve releases to
be at or near an end.
Commercial Banking, we had net income of $670 million in the quarter. That's on record revenues of $1.7 billion.
That's driven by those record loan balances that I talked about. Higher year over year deposits, and that's
marginally offset by the spread compression we've experienced in our deposit taking businesses. Loan growth,
we think continues to reflect both improvements in our customer base, as well as real market share gains.
So our C&I loan growth year over year is up 24%. We think that's almost double the industry rate. Record middle
market loan balances, I think the ninth quarter, consecutive quarter of growth, up 18%. And while utilization still
remains modest, we actually saw this quarter a modest uptick in utilization, so a little bit of additional activity. The
credit environment in the commercial bank remains benign. Excluding recoveries, net charge-offs in the quarter
would have only been 13 basis points.
Treasury & Security Services on page 11. Net income here of $460 million. That's up almost 40% year-on-year.
32% quarter-on-quarter. Revenue's up 11%, from very positive underlying trends, liability balances year over year
up 15%, assets under custody, up 4%. International revenue increased 12% and expenses were only up 3%
year-on-year as we start to benefit from some of the technology and expense initiatives that we had been talking
about in previous quarters. The result is fairly positive operating leverage for the quarter. Pretax margins of 34%
for TSS this quarter. Do remember, we get a little positive impact of seasonality in our WSS business from our
ADR business, so we have stronger second and fourth quarters on the revenue side.
Asset Management on page 12. Circled net income of a little under $400 million. That's up slightly
quarter-on-quarter on revenues of $2.4 billion. Assets under management were effectively flat year over year,
down quarter-on-quarter as a function of markets. We continue actually see liquidity outflows this quarter in AUM
but it was offset by our 13th consecutive quarter of long-term in-flows in AUM.
If you go to page 13, Corporate and Private Equity. So we reported here as a result of the CIO activities, $1.8
billion in losses for the quarter. Jamie walked you through the specifics of the portfolio. What we're going to do
going forward is report this as three distinct items, Private Equity, a Treasury CIO line item, and then other
Corporate. We're going to try to give you a little bit of incremental updated guidance.
So for Treasury CIO, for the next quarter, you would expect to see us generate $200 million plus or minus in
losses. And that's a function of the reinvestment opportunities, and our need to redeploy at this point. But it will
also depend on our reinvestment strategies for that and the numb number can vary quite materially, up or down
an additional $200 million. Other Corporate, we expect to be a positive $100 million on average, but it can be very
volatile. And that's even before significant items. So you saw that this quarter, so tax runs through here, Real
Estate, other small litigation can run through this line item, so there's a variety of items, but on average, it should
be about $100 million for the next several quarters.
On page 14, you see what will be now contained in the supplement of our additional disclosure on CIO and on
Treasury, in a combined basis, so we'll have both a revenue and a net income line. I would draw your attention to
the bottom right, which as Jamie talked about the VaR in the IB at the end of the quarter, the VaR in CIO was
$180 million for this hedge position. It is now $123 million. So again, coming down over the last several weeks.
Page 7 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Page 15, Fortress balance sheet. Jamie talked a little bit about our coverage ratios, but let me just spend a
moment more on the 7.9 that we recorded for the quarter, just to clarify. That is recorded with the full impact of
Basel III, both the new 2.5 rules, as well as the published NPR as if it were adopted. That, however, is our best
estimate at this point in time, and obviously things can change as we continue to refine and work with the
regulators on the application of those rules. If you actually look on a comparable basis to how we reported our
second quarter, our Basel III ratio was up modestly. We also, in the appendix, I'm not going to go through it, we
added a walk for you on both Basel I and Basel III, so on Basel I, if you add the impact of 2.5 rules to Basel I, it
would reduce our Basel I reported ratio by 160 basis points. If you took the NPR as written, it would add an
additional reduction of 100 basis points. So we're obviously with the industry in discussions with the regulators
around the interpretations of that NPR.
We are going to continue to report Basel I as-is, until the first quarter of 2013, when the new rules take effect. The
last thing I'd just remind you on this page, actually put it on, we're going to keep this on now, as you think about
returns on balance sheets, given the different business mix, we internally looked at returns on RWA relative to our
competitors, so to set different balance sheets on a comparable basis, RWA is only reported reliably on a Basel I
basis, we're doing that comparison. We had a positive 1.6% return on our Risk Weighted Assets for the quarter,
comparable to the first quarter and we think will compare very favorably to our peer group for the quarter.
Outlook on page 16. I've covered most of the items here, but I really want to cover two in specific. The first is in
Corporate Private Equity. Jamie mentioned it as a result of the TRuPS redemption, we are going to book in the
third quarter about $900 million in gain associated with swap terminations that were related to the TRuPS that we
are redeeming. In addition to that, you see the net income impact, NIE impact, from that redemption. That
assumes no refinancing. Obviously that number would change, depending on how much incremental financing we
do against those redemptions.
The second is an update on expense. And if you look to the bottom right on firm-wide guidance. We expect our
adjusted expense number for the second half of the year to be flat with the first half of the year, and if you
compare that to what we said at Investor Day, that would be up somewhere in the order of $1.5 billion to $2
billion, relative to that guidance. There's really two reasons for that it. About 75% of that difference is associated
with Mortgage, and that gets broken down half and half.
50% of the increase in expense in Mortgage is associated with incremental revenue and production, so it's good
expense and it's made good profits, but we didn't anticipate that at the time of Investor Day. The other 50% is
associated with those high elevated costs in servicing, related really to the consent order, the IFR, and a variety
of other matters. We expected that to come down sooner. It has not. But you should think about this as timing, as
opposed to absolute difference in expense. It will come down over time as we work through these issues. About
25% of the expense is associated with the environment we're in, which is we've had higher legal, higher
compliance, higher FDIC that we had anticipated, and that has run through a variety of the businesses.
Page 17, the final sort of piece of Corporate in terms of guidance. We've added this core NIM page, as you know,
a couple of quarters ago. Core NIM declined by 10 basis points this quarter. For someone who is going to, I
figured, given other topics, no one's going to jump right in with the NIM question first off, so I figured I'd give you
the answer right now. NIM is down 10 basis points, really on the lower rate environment, the mix change in our
loan portfolio, and the important impact this quarter was actually accounting from FAS 133 hedge in
effectiveness. That was really the primary driver both in our investment securities yield portfolio, as well as in our
long-term debt portfolio. And if you just focused on the security sales that were associated with the $1 billion of
gains, that actually did not have a material impact on the portfolio for the quarter.
The last comment is really on page 18, which is our European disclosure as it relates to the periphery. $6.3 billion
of total disclosure, of total exposure, rather at the end of June. That's down from $12.5 billion at the end of March.
And what I want to caution everyone is, the significant portion of that is really a function of hedging activity on that
exposure, which we may or may not do on a go-forward basis. And the net exposure I think you should expect to
return to the levels more consistent with where we were at the end of the first quarter. We do continue to be
active with our clients in the region, but we're clearly being more cautious given the environment today, and
focused really on helping those clients do business in the markets. So with that, I'm going to stop, turn it over to
Mike, and then after Mike, we'll be back for questions. Thanks.
MIKE CAVANAGH, CEO, TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO: Thanks, Doug.
So I hope everybody's coffee has kicked in and mine as well. We're going to spend a little while here going
through the task force update. So for those on the phone or on the web, if you go to the next section, is what it's
called. So in the room here, I'll dive right in on slide number 1, which describes the management review that's
been under way for the past two months. So my job has been to lead this firm-wide response, and conduct a
Page 8 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

rigorous review of the events leading up to the losses, assess what went wrong, and mobilize the Company to
make the necessary fixes happen. While some work remains, I'm glad to say that the scope and intensity of what
we've already done allows me to give you today what I think is a very clear picture of what happened and what
we've done about it.
I have to say that it's been an incredible effort by many people, and I just want to thank everyone who's been
involved in getting this work done to get us here. Now what I'm going to do, is go through this presentation in
three sections. First, we're going to spend a bunch of time just walking through some facts. Then we'll go through
observations and implications of those facts. And then finally, I'll bring it to a close with the remediation actions
that we've taken in response to all this.
So if you start, let's begin on slide 2. That is just a summary of the key findings of the review. There are five key
observations. The first is the actual cause of the losses. And the other observations are things that, had we done
them better, may have reduced the size of the losses, allowing us to detect issues earlier.
The first one, which is the cause, is that CIO judgments, execution and escalation were poor in the first quarter.
Second, the level of scrutiny of CIO did not evolve commensurate with its increased complexity. Third, the
dedicated risk management team supporting CIO was ineffective in dealing with the challenges of this portfolio.
Fourth, that risk limits in CIO were not granular enough, and fifth, that the model, the approval and
implementation of synthetic credit VaR model that we'll talk about, that happened in the quarter, was poorly done.
So with that overview of these observations, now let's slowly go through the pertinent facts that these support.
So on slide 3 is some historical context on the synthetic credit portfolio itself. The portfolio's primary purpose had
been to provide a partial offset to losses we would suffer elsewhere in CIO, and the Company, in a stressed credit
environment. The portfolio got started about five years ago. It was generally short credit. But also included some
long positions in order to reduce the cost of carrying credit protection. And consistent with its objective, the
portfolio produced gains in the stressed period of 2008 to 2010, and was breakeven or positive from each year
from 2007 to 2011, and all-in, it generated about $2 billion in gains during that period.
So next on slide 4, now we get into a summary of the first-quarter 2012 transformation of the portfolio that led to
the losses. In late 2011, CIO was directed to reduce the synthetic credit portfolio's risk and risk weighted assets.
That direction came as part of the annual budgeting process, in which we develop the firm's capital plans
including our glide path to Basel III. In the second bullet, I'll attempt to explain what it appears the synthetic credit
team and CIO hoped to do. And that was, to move their portfolio's risk position from a net short position to a
neutral one, while reducing risk weighted assets in the process. They also hoped to retain some protection
against Corporate credit defaults which was a synthetic credit portfolio's historical mission. So a lot of things going
on that they were trying to accomplish, and found it difficult to find a balance that they liked.
To simplify what they did, it amounted to them going long investment grade indices while increasing short
positions in junior tranches in high yield indices. And the size of the portfolio grew dramatically as they continued
to add positions later in the quarter, when they were struggling to balance the portfolio, as the market began to
move against them. So a question of why they didn't just pursue an outright reduction of the portfolio. And it
appears, and that's all it is, an appearance, that they thought about it a bit but they believed that it would be more
expensive than the approach they chose, which obviously proved to be wrong, and were focused on thinking
about high execution costs to reduce the portfolio in size and the loss carry of a reduced portfolio, and so they
went ahead with the approach they had. That's my best shot at describing what it seems they were trying to do.
And now you move to the third bullet where you see what we now know, which is what they did do, was increase
the size and complexity of the portfolio dramatically in the first quarter, and along with it, the sensitivity to a variety
of risks which you can see listed there, all of which contributed in some part to the losses and Jamie touched on
some of these earlier on.
On slide 5, I just give a graphic representation of basically the same thing, which is the growth of the portfolio in
the first quarter. On the left, you see the total notional size of the portfolio, with the red dots being the net of long
and short notionals, which as you can see, tripled in the first quarter. You can't look at this slide and fully
understand the risk of the portfolio. But what it does show is that the significantly increased size and complexity of
the portfolio left little margin for error when the expected pricing relationships across the portfolio began to break
down and generate losses. It was a very risky approach they took that should have been discussed and vetted at
more senior levels but it was not.
So now, for the next three slides, what I'm going to do is lay out some key events that happened during three
sequential time periods. So the first one, slide 6, covers the first period, and that is from the beginning of 2012 to
late March, March 23, by which point the cake was fully baked on this thing and essentially all of the loss-making
positions were already on the books. So during this period, what you see on this slide is three key events I want
Page 9 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

to talk about. The first one, was that certain CIO level risk limits got exceeded, and how those exceptions were
handled.
These types of business level limits are common across the Company, and when they are exceeded, the
independent business unit risk managers are responsible for reviewing the reasons for the excess and either
granting relief or ensuring that action is taken to get back inside the limits. Specifically, two CIO-level credit
spread widening limits were exceeded over the course of the quarter. In January, a measurement of the impact of
credit spread widening that ignored correlations across instruments exceeded its limits. This was reviewed by a
CIO's market risk officer, who granted relief from the limit on the basis that the measure was an unsophisticated
tool for measuring risk in the circumstances. Then secondly, the other one there was on March 23rd, the second
CIO-level credit spread widening limit was exceeded, and this was obviously of little use as a control measure
since it occurred after the positions were already put on.
Now, the second event you see on the slide here in the middle bullet was the approval of a new synthetic credit
VaR model in late January. This was approved by the independent model review group in corporate risk
management. The week before the new model was implemented, John Hogan, the new Chief Risk Officer and
Jamie were asked to sign off on a temporary increase of firm-wide VaR in an e-mail, which noted that a CIO VaR
model was soon to be approved, which was expected to lower VaR, and they assented and went ahead with that
approval. The problem with this second event here, which is why it's on this slide, relates to the model approval
itself. Again, this was done by the model review group, despite reasons for concern about the weak operational
environment supporting the model, which we'll come back to later on.
And then the third event on this slide was the February 29 CIO business review with folks from Corporate, and the
CIO attendees at that meeting indicated that the portfolio, the synthetic credit portfolio was well-positioned and
that RWA reduction was on track and raised no other issues. That's it for the key events up to the period of March
23, and that is a period by which all the positions were substantially on the books that led to the losses and the
portfolio transformed.
Now let's go on to slide 7, and move on to the next time period I want to talk about. This is the period from then,
March 23 then to the April 13 earnings call. So first, the portfolio experiences losses in late March and early April.
Around this time, market visibility of the synthetic credit positions becomes a concern, particularly after press
reports on April 6. At that point, Doug and Jamie asked for a review of the portfolio in preparation for the earnings
release a few days later. Ina spear-headed the review with engagement by John Hogan, Doug Braunstein, and
others. The main output of that review was forward scenario analysis that produced a probable P&L range for the
second quarter on the portfolio from positive $350 million to negative $250 million, with a bias to the positive end.
So at that time, the group got comfortable that the portfolio's risk was manageable, though in need of heightened
attention going forward, and assurances to that effect were provided to Jamie and Doug.
Let me make a few additional points about this review. First, that analysis was led by Ina, which made sense, as
she was very capable of driving a review of an activity in her area of responsibility. If there was a question about
something like this in TSS for example, I'd fully expect to lead the charge on bottoming it out, as would other
operating committee members for their businesses. The second point is that Ina, in turn, relied on the managers
and traders responsible for the portfolio, and who knew it best to produce the supporting analysis at that stage
over those few days, and hindsight obviously their views may have been unduly influenced that by their conviction
that the market's awareness of their positions was causing aberrations in pricing that would reverse. I'll also just
say here that the VaR model was not a focus during the pre-earnings release review, because there were no
indication at that stage it wasn't working properly. It's a backward-looking indicator and actual losses had already
prompted demands for the forward-looking scenario analysis that was being done. On April 13, this period ends
and we announce our first-quarter results.
Moving on to slide 8. This is the set of facts for the period between the earnings release and the launch of the
management review. In late April, losses pick up and the heightened monitoring that followed the earnings call
gets taken to another level, when a senior team from Corporate Risk is sent to examine the portfolio from the
bottom up. They begin providing daily updates and constructing independent analysis of the portfolio that
becomes the basis for risk measurements that the new CIO team picks up a few weeks later. It's during this
period that problems with the new VaR model are discovered. We used the old model for the VaR number in the
10-Q, and disclosed that we had used the new model on April 13.
This event has caused us to tighten up our procedures around model changes and disclosures going forward, by
the way. We filed the first quarter 10-Q on Thursday, May 10 and held the investor call that evening with an
update on the synthetic credit portfolio, and finally on Monday, May 14, Matt Zames is announced as the new CIO
and our management review is launched. That's it for the facts on slide 9, we transition from those facts which
Page 10 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

you just see summarized on the left to the observations they support on the right, which is what I have covered at
the beginning, and now let's spend a little time going through each one of those observations in a bit more detail.
So on slide 10, is the first one which is the observation that CIO judgment, execution, and escalation were poor.
So first, the trading approach itself was poorly conceived, reviewed and executed. As we saw in the facts, the
portfolio grew to a perilous size, with numerous embedded risks that the team did not understand, and were not
equipped to manage. The second bullet on the page is about insularity. Even within CIO, the discussion of the
portfolio stayed in the chain of managers with direct responsibility for it. A robust review among peer leaders in
CIO would have provided for a discussion and challenge on the business side, which is what I'm accustomed to
seeing across the management teams in this company, and it didn't happen here. And this was again
compounded by the failure to surface issues related to the synthetic credit portfolio in the February business
review with Corporate. Finally, the CIO-led review and analysis of the portfolio in advance of the April 13 earnings
call was poorly managed, resulting in the view that potential losses were manageable, that the portfolio was
balanced, and would recover.
Now, before leaving each of these findings I'm just going to comment quickly on the remediation actions that
relate to it, that we'll get to later, and through this, one of those fixes are the people changes that have been made
in all the relevant CIO roles and a complete revamping on the management processes in CIO. So the second
observation is that the level of scrutiny that CIO faced did not evolve as the complexity of the synthetic credit
portfolio increased. So some of the contributing factors here was the belief and experience that the core activities
of CIO were managed appropriately, contributing to the unit's successful track record. Second was the capability
of and experience of Ina herself, and third was the modest but positive results of the synthetic credit portfolio
historically. So as a result, we collectively ended up with a level of scrutiny that fell short of the high standards we
apply to our client businesses, especially as the complexity increased.
Moving on to slide 12, the third observation is that CIO risk management was ineffective in its responsibility to the
synthetic credit portfolio. I'd acknowledge some factors that presented challenges for the CIO risk management
team including what in hindsight was the lack of quality resources and a less robust risk committee supporting the
risk team. Nonetheless, the CIO risk team failed to meet reasonable expectations in my mind. First, a primary
responsibility of the business level risk team is establishing adequate risk limits. In this case, tighter, more
appropriate limits would have forced more discussion and debate about this portfolio, and if needed, would have
prompted escalation to more senior levels. In fairness to the CIO risk team, they had an effort under way to
improve the risk limit structure for CIO but it was too late to matter.
Second, the CIO risk team did not perform adequately when it came to the VaR model approval and
implementation. I'll cover that in a couple of slides. Third, CIO risk wasn't forceful enough in challenging the front
office, and they never developed a sufficient understanding of the risk of the portfolio to escalate concerns to
senior risk leaders outside CIO during the first quarter. Now to remediate this, we've added new people in key
roles. We've also significantly strengthened the risk committee framework that covers CIO and other Corporate
sector activities.
So on slide 13, observations, number four, which is that risk limits in CIO were not sufficiently granular. So this is
a critical one and we saw it in the facts on slide 6 that we gave ourselves too few opportunities to engage risk or
other senior people as would have been the case if we had a well-designed limit structure around this portfolio.
First, there were no risk limits specific to the synthetic credit portfolio. The limits applied to more aggregated
portfolios, often at the level of CIO which was clearly inadequate. Obviously, though, what was needed was
granular position level limits for the portfolio itself. And I'd just say that in our Investment Bank credit derivatives
business, the limits are already very granular. I believe that had the synthetic credit portfolio been risk managed
under equivalent standards, it would not have experienced the unchecked transformation and growth that led to
the losses. As for remediation here, we now have granular risk limits for all CIO, and verified they are in place
where needed across the firm.
Moving to slide 14, is the final observation, is that the synthetic credit VaR model approval and implementation
were inadequate. So there's been some speculation here that this model was approved abruptly and by CIO
alone, but that's not true. The fact is that CIO began working in consultation with the independent model review
group in Corporate risk in mid-2011 to upgrade the VaR model used for synthetic credit to a more accurate model
that captured correlation risk as required for Basel 2.5 compliance, which we did not have with the old model, and
we obviously wanted to get. The expectation of all parties involved in the model approval was that the new model
would lower measured VaR on the basis of the improvement in the calculation methodology, together with the
infrequent band breaks of the old model, which suggested that it produced conservative calculation of VAR.

Page 11 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

So a fundamental problem with the VaR process was a lack of clarity on the roles and responsibilities for each
element of the process across the model review group, the CIO risk group, and the CIO front office. And the
primary problem in the end, though, was sloppiness and bad execution in implementing the new model,
operational problems which included incorrect data feeds and certain calculation mistakes resulted in a VaR that
was lower than what the approved model would have produced. A properly implemented model would still have
lowered VaR compared to the old model but not by as much, so it would still have taken us a bit of time to catch
the overall problems, but as we have said, it probably delayed us a little bit. To remediate here, we strengthened
the procedures around significant model approval and implementations.
So slide 15, another transition here, so now we've just finished up reviewing the observations on the left side of
the slide. And now we'll touch in a little more detail on a couple of the major remediation actions that
foreshadowed a bit. On slide 16, moving to that, first we have what is effectively a complete revamping of the CIO
unit itself. On the people front, that includes new CIO management team members, including Matt himself, plus
the head of CIO Europe, the Chief Risk Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer. All of them are very highly
regarded, and have substantial experience at our Company.
In terms of governance, the new team has instituted a robust committee structure, new review processes and
better reporting, which will provide for better discussion and debate to ensure mistakes like this one that occurred
here don't happen again. And in terms of CIOs mandates, matters refocusing on the core mission of managing
the AFS investment portfolio. The synthetic credit activity has been shut down and liquidated portfolio transferred
to the Investment Bank in order to be better managed.
On slide 17, you see a summary of the risk management remediation actions both for CIO and the firm. For CIO,
as I've mentioned, we have a new Chief Risk Officer, and have added resources to support his efforts. This new
CIO will have responsibility for all the areas of the Corporate sector, not just CIO. As we learned from this event,
all activities, outside our client businesses need robust risk management coverage, and by broadening the
mandate of this new Chief Risk Officer, we've accomplished that.
Next is risk governance. As I've said, we've created a much more robust risk committee for all activities in
Corporate that is modeled after the committees in our client businesses. It includes significant representation by
senior executives and subject matter experts from outside CIO. The committee has already met numerous times,
and it's completed detailed reviews of the activities of CIO, ensuring risk parameters are consistent with the newly
refocused mandate. And as for risk limits, we've introduced proper limits on all other CIO activities. Across the
rest of the firm, we thoroughly reviewed the market risk limit structures to see if relaxed granularity elsewhere and
found them to be in good shape. Finally we bolstered the policies for dealing with risk limit exceptions by requiring
higher levels of escalation and more frequent reviews.
Slide 18 summarizes the remediation of the model approval and implementation and monitoring processes. So
here, we've clarified the roles and responsibilities between the firm-wide model review group, and the line of
business risk management functions. For the model review group, which sits in Corporate, in addition to reviewing
and approving the VaR calculation framework, which is their core activity, the group must also assess now the
quality of the analytical testing and the soundness of the model operating environment, whoever it is that's
responsible for that.
We've also formed up a new team inside model review that will monitor model related responsibilities across the
risk management function firm-wide. They've been under way, and they've already reviewed all market risk VaR
models, and confirmed that data integrity and operating environments are sound. And then for the lines of
business, we have clarified their responsibilities across all aspects of model governance, including post
implementation monitoring, and we have heightened the expectations for model oversight through the line of
business risk committees. So finally on remediation, I'd just say that I just reviewed the remediations that are the
ones that directly address the observations from the management review of CIO. But I should add that we picked
up a lot of other learnings along the way during this work, and that we're acting on those things as well to make
the Company better.
Now just to wrap it up, on slide 19, I'll wrap it up by saying that based on everything this team and I have
examined and reviewed in the past two months, I believe that the synthetic credit event is an isolated failure.
That's both because circumstances in CIO were unique but also because of the thorough shakedown of the whole
Company that we did to be certain that we weren't making similar mistakes elsewhere. I'd say, in closing, that our
management team has always been and continues to be very highly-focused on managing risk and this event has
caused us to step up our game everywhere. Thanks for listening to this. We're going to move to Q&A now.
And while Jamie and Doug rejoin for that, I'm just going to get us started with a couple of topics that you see to
get Q&A going. To just pick up where Doug already covered a lot on the restatements. I just want to link it back to
Page 12 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

the work that I've done. So this slide gives some supporting information on the restatements that Doug covered
earlier. All his numbers are the ones that are in there. The context is, because it's really the management review
effort that's created the highly unusual circumstances we were faced with, in making the decision to restate the
first quarter.
Remember, we started the management review on May 14, which was a couple of days after we -- all the work
supporting the 10-Q filing on May 10 was completed. As I described, the management review fact finding has
been very exhaustive. We've done obviously lots of e-mails being reviewed. But also, tens of thousands of voice
tapes, many of them in foreign languages. And so it's taken time to work our way through, and work continues.
But a broadest of determination in the past few days, that as Doug said, we don't have sufficient comfort that for
the first quarter the trader marks met the requirements of being where the traders thought they could exit their
positions. I'll just point out though, that's even though the marks were generally within the bid ask spread, which is
what otherwise is acceptable for GAAP. Given the unusual circumstances we've taken the conservative approach
to restate, bringing the marks to the VCG's midst of external mid-market benchmarks.
Next, I just want to say a few things on the people side. First, on clawbacks. So employee-related actions for CIO
managers here, slide 22. Now, Jamie's going to talk about Ina in a minute. I'll talk about the several other
managers, all of the managers in London with direct responsibility for synthetic credit portfolio, are now separated
from the firm. None are receiving severance. And no 2012 incentive compensation.
We've made the decision to claw back compensation from each of these individuals, and that amount is the
maximum permitted, we've invoked that. It represents approximately two years of total annual compensation for
each individual, covering stock and options. We took into account, what's taken into account was a broad set of
factors. I'll just make the point that the balance of factors for any individual in this balances differently but all
ended up at the same result of a full clawback. The Board's reviewed all of these decisions. I'll just say further,
because there may be questions on people actions, what's covered here is the three London managers with
direct responsibility for synthetic credit, but there's several other changes in senior people in CIOs, some of whom
have been reassigned to more appropriate roles, and others who will be leaving the firm. We believe we're taking
all the appropriate people actions in a timely manner, but beyond what I've told you here, we're not going to be
providing more details on people actions, and obviously not going to be talking about individuals.
Then finally, on 23, I've got a Board statement to read on compensation determinations. And forget the three
people I just covered. As I said, Jamie will cover Ina. Advancing the slide here. For all other individuals, and that
includes Jamie, the 2012 performance year compensation and clawback, if appropriate, will be determined in the
ordinary course, considering among other things the factors you see listed which is Company, unit and individual
performance on a absolute and relative basis, the achievement of non-financial objectives which of course are the
same things we would always consider in a total picture on compensation. Of course, involvement in and
responsibility for the CIO matter will be included in that. Just an added point, we're only going to make public
information about what we do on clawbacks if it's required. Let me hand it over to Jamie, who wants to make a
comment about Ina, and then we'll go to Q&A.
JAMIE DIMON: Thanks, Mike. Let me just say a word about Ina Drew. I have enormous respect for Ina as a
professional and as a person. She has made some incredible contributions to this company. If she decided to
retire, I got several letters from former Chairmen who talk about her contribution. One even said she saved the
Company, in his judgment. In my experience, she has acted with integrity and tried to do what was right for the
Company at all times, even though she was part of this mistake, and I believe that is true here, as well. In that
spirit, Ina came forward and offered to give up a very significant amount of her past compensation, which is
equivalent to the maximum clawback amount. With that, I'll turn it over to Q&A.
Questions and Answers
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Glenn Schorr from Nomura. So, in the past
couple of Investor Days, you've shown us a slide on the earning power of the Firm being in the range of $24
billion, pre-buyback over the cycle earnings. Curious on post these CIO-related changes, how you think about
that? I do appreciate that you showed us $2 billion over the last four years in the credit portfolio earnings. Is that
it? Is that how we should think about it?
JAMIE DIMON: This does not affect the earnings power of the Company at all. The $24 billion would still be
accurate. We can probably show those numbers. We didn't put them up there, but we can probably show you the
numbers -- almost the same we showed you last time. There are a lot of those where we are today minus the
burden in Mortgage.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. So, no other big changes to the investment philosophy? Okay. Good, thanks.
Page 13 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

On the European exposure slide that you have in one of the slides, I guess I'm looking for a net take-away. Has
the situation in Europe gotten any better? Because it hasn't from a lot of people's view. And then maybe, your
level of confidence around your exposures, hedges, and what you're doing behind the scenes to potentially
prepare for the potential redenominations.
JAMIE DIMON: We think -- we've been fairly consistent, we think we kind of have a roller coaster ride here. You
see progress -- two steps forward, one step back. We still think they're going to muddle through, but it may not be
in the form or fashion or timetable we all would prefer. The number's up there, we went from $12 billion to $6
billion of net exposure. We think that's a rather good number. When we stress test, we think our risk is, we talk
about a potential loss of $3 billion. In a bad scenario, it could be worse. In a complete extreme scenario, like a
falling apart of the whole European Union, the important thing to us is we continue to conduct business there. We
have a lot of clients. We've been in Italy and Spain for 100 years or so. We're going to do that carefully.
Obviously, we've been doing more hedging of the exposures there. And that decision we make periodically over
time.
GLENN SCHORR: Last one. Maybe -- I don't know if there's a point of clarification. Because I think everyone
appreciates the full run-through and disclosure on the CIO. Coming into today I was saying -- wow, it would be
great if they could tell me what the loss was, what they think the expected loss is, and what percent is gone or
left. You got us on the loss side, you got us on the full run-through. I'm not sure I'm clear on what's left, how much
of it's gone, or how much of it's still with you?
JAMIE DIMON: I think we showed a lot of numbers, showed the risk itself is down two-thirds, 70%, 80%.
Depending how you measure it. [In the IB], it doesn't have to lose money at all. We said the extreme stress
scenarios, simulated stress scenarios, which would be a Euro crisis, a credit crunch, a 99.9 statistical analysis
could be as high as $1.6 billion or $1.7 billion. Does not mean we expect it. I would be surprised if it got that big.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Matt O'Connor.
MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank. I'm going to ask the same
question, Glenn, to start off, as we think about longer term earnings power, how can we completely ignore there
was some profit from the macro hedges, there's going to be some derisking of the securities book. I kind of want
to ask the same question again, and try to get some numbers around it.
JAMIE DIMON: There was $2 billion of profit in this book over a four- or five-year period. We don't -- we didn't
assume any of it going forward at all. It's not like we're taking a lot of risk and assuming big profits. We were not.
That was not in our numbers. That doesn't change the $24 billion or anything like that. We're not derisking the
AFS portfolio. When it's fully invested, about $250 billion; it has a 2.6% yield. You can go buy Ginnie Mae or
Fannie Mae today at 3.25%, so, you can easily extend duration. We're at very short duration. Extend duration,
earn more NII. I say, the portfolio's actually conservative. Will be a source of higher earnings, if and when rates go
up. So, this will not affect the earnings power of the Company at all.
MATT O'CONNOR: As we think about the core businesses, and specifically the Investment Bank, you've talked
about looking through rechecking all the risk, bringing down some limits potentially. Will we see any of that impact
going forward?
JAMIE DIMON: The Investment Bank is doing what it's supposed to do. They were not asked to take down any
other risk because they took in synthetic credit. They're going to manage synthetic credit, because that's what
they do. But the rest of the business is running exactly the way it was before. They constantly manage their own
risk exposures.
MATT O'CONNOR: And separately, I don't know if this is -- if you can say anything specific to JPMorgan, or just
overall, but LIBOR obviously has been in the news quite a bit, if there's anything that you can say. Or even when
will we know what we don't know, if you have a sense of timing.
JAMIE DIMON: All I can say, is like all of these things, a lot of people doing exams. We're totally open with
regulators and investigators. The other thing, I'd be a little patient if I were you. Not everything is the same. It's
going to take a while. Not all companies are in the same position. I just wouldn't make too many assumptions at
this point.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley. Two questions. One on
capital. You indicated that you think you've got a strong trajectory to 9.5%. We're getting two numbers for the
starting point there. Either it's the starting point is 9.1% post mitigation, or 7.9%. Which one are you referring to?
Page 14 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: The 7.9% is we fully phase in everything up front. What we're saying for the 9%, you actually fully
phased in the run-off stuff in some of the models we know we're going to do. We would get another 1 point back
within the next two years. I'm trying to show apples-to-apples.
BETSY GRASECK: But your 9.5% that you're saying you have a strong trajectory to, is by what time frame?
JAMIE DIMON: That 9.5% was the end of 2013. And was like 10.5% for 2014; if we don't buy back stock, it's like
10.5% and 12.5%. Go right to that slide, and you can see it. That's without stock buyback. That's only taking
advantage of mitigating items the year they actually happen.
BETSY GRASECK: Separately, in a little bit of a follow-up on the LIBOR question -- so, one of the concerns that
people have had is that, clearly with large London presence and with what had happened in the CIO, there was a
question around controls in that region. And so, it begs -- it gets to people thinking about -- gee, if the CIO office
didn't have the controls in that part of the world, why should we believe that the rest of the organization did? And
so, I think that's what's on people's minds as they're hearing today the CIO trade all boxed and wrapped up, but
looking forward, next six months, how do we know it's not going to come up in some other areas?
JAMIE DIMON: I can never prove a negative. Mike went through what -- our expense controls and disciplines,
which we feel pretty good about. We can't prove to you that, because you're not going to see it. We think this is
isolated. We think the controls in Europe are just -- Mike was running through controls around the country, around
the world. We think they're pretty good.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Nancy Bush.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Yes, Nancy Bush, NAB Research. Jamie, two questions for you.
Your underlying trends were very positive this quarter, and there just seems to be a disconnect between what
you're seeing in your underlying trends, and what we're hearing about the economy, which seems to be softening,
everybody's gloomy, things are terrible, et cetera, et cetera. Could you just flesh that out a little bit?
JAMIE DIMON: You're making a good point. Doug showed the numbers, like eight quarters of continuous middle
market loan growth. Anecdotally, I hear that from other companies too, not all other banks but a lot of the banks. I
hear from a lot of the banks small business loan growth. The fact is, the underpinnings of the American economy
aren't that bad. Corporate America, middle market companies, small business are okay -- there's a lot of liquidity.
There's not a huge order book, so sales aren't growing dramatically. We have slow, modest growth, and we are
starting to see it in our calculations.
Some of what we're getting is market share gains. Remember, we did middle market -- we weren't doing middle
market banking in California and now we do. We weren't doing small business in California, now we do because
[of our position]. We are gaining share in some of our businesses -- credit card, middle market, small business,
IB's holding share.
NANCY BUSH: Second question. Not a lot of discussion about litigation reserves in your commentary today.
Could you just comment broadly about, with the CIO matter, with upcoming whatever may happen with LIBOR, et
cetera, what you guys think about your litigation reserves at this point?
JAMIE DIMON: So, I think, last time we spoke about mortgage, we think it's kind of well -- we've really done a
good job there, and that could change over time. We put a lot away from mortgage over time. This quarter, you
see the 10-Q, you get to see the 10-Q will now show litigation expense is like $300 million. We try to keep up with
reserving for things we know about. This quarter, we had some big ins and outs. It isn't like just one thing that
happens.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Richard Ramsden.
RICHARD RAMSDEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Jamie, could you just take us through what the process is
for reapplication for the buyback; do you have to resubmit a full CCAR? Are the assumptions going to be the
same as what they were for the first one, and what a reasonable timetable for that is going to be?
JAMIE DIMON: We're going to be resubmitting in a week or two.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: And we're getting our instructions about what that process is going to be.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Monday.
Page 15 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Whatever it is, we think we can accommodate and get it done and resubmit it. Like I said, I hope
both the Board governance -- the Board is doing its review, so I can't say when the Board is going to end its
review, but I'm hopeful that the Board review and the capital plan are done in such a way that by early in the
fourth quarter, we can buy back stock if we want.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: With the stock trading where it is, does this change your waterfall in terms of buyback
versus dividend, dividend increase next year versus buyback?
JAMIE DIMON: I wrote in my Chairman's Letter that at tangible book value, I think our stock is a great buy.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Thanks.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Ed Najarian.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI CAPITAL: Richard's question was my question. So, you've got it. Thank you.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Andrew Marquardt.
ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Thanks. Just on the [GIPS] exposure again, you
previously talked about max losses, if all things fail, $3 billion after tax. Is that still valid, or is there a new number
we should be thinking of?
JAMIE DIMON: The $3 billion was my estimate after tax. It was $5 billion pretax. I did it with my own
methodologies. I said it was a bad outcome; it's not the worst outcome. If you said that Europe unraveled, the
Euro falls apart, I think it could be worse than that.
The IB just recently, the IB is constantly looking at these -- for the Company. TSS does it. Their number recently
would be more like $3 billion. We have a Euro command center. We know exactly what we're doing; if something
goes wrong, we're prepared to deal with it. We don't have to necessarily have losses at all. The issue with
Europe, and the complexes with Europe are what contracts apply, how they apply, who leaves the Euro, what
currencies you're paid in, what does that do for losses in the country? So, there are these complex things, but
those numbers would still be rough estimates of a bad outcome, but not the worst outcome.
ANDREW MARQUARDT: Thank you. And then separately, in terms of your outlook slide, something that wasn't
there was the Real Estate Portfolio. Is it still coming down, 10% to 15% you said in the past, a $500 million drag
NIIs on a year-over-year basis. Is that still valid for this year, and maybe a similar amount next year, is that an
ongoing issue?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: You could assume at this pace, same assumptions.
ANDREW MARQUARDT: Thank you.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Mike Mayo.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Mike Cavanagh had a statement saying -- the level
of scrutiny did not evolve commensurate with the increased complexity. He was referring to CIO. But I wonder if
that statement could apply to the Firm as a whole. February 28 we were all here, eight hours of presentations,
over 200 slides, no mention of CIO. And then we have the CIO event, a risk model that didn't capture the risk, a
new risk model that wasn't accurately tested before, some checks and balances that might have been possible
with the investment bank. It seemed a little siloed. So, I'm wondering if the Firm as a whole has reached some
sort of tipping point when it comes to bigness or complexity that makes it more difficult to manage than in the
past?
JAMIE DIMON: No.
MIKE MAYO: Okay. What can you say to further reassure us? You're here in person. Have you lost a step? Has
the focus gone off?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike, this Company is the same Company that went through 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010,
2011. Similarly to Bear Stearns and WaMu, and we had record earnings the last year. We had record earnings
the year before. It's likely, if you look to your own estimates, we're going to have record earnings this year. We
have gained market share at investment banking, and TSS and asset management. Our commercial bank and
small business and middle market. We're just not doing a great job marketing the Company. We're going to sit
back and try to make this a more attractive Company for you all.
Page 16 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

We made a mistake. We completely disclosed the mistake. We've denuded ourselves in front of you. We're in
better shape than we were before. CIO was not a place we expected a mistake. We made the mistake. I can't
prove a negative. So, you all can ask me all day long, I can not prove a negative. We believe we've got very good
controls, and very good people in place. Look at the results, by the way.
MIKE MAYO: The results are -- if we didn't have the details here, it would be okay. But we saw how the sausage
is made. It makes me wonder if I might get food poisoning sometime in the future. What would you say if you're
talking to a portfolio manager, and you have 20 seconds to say why it won't happen again, what would you say to
that portfolio manager?
JAMIE DIMON: Because we have very granular limits. We've got risk committees, credit committees, audit
committees. We try to do a very good job. I think it's silly for anyone in the business world to think you're not going
to make mistakes. It is not possible in the real world. That's only possible in a fictional world. I just think the
mistakes should be smaller, fewer and far between -- this being an exception.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Chris Whalen.
CHRIS WHALEN, ANALYST, TANGENT CAPITAL PARTNERS: Chris Whalen from Tangent Capital Partners.
First, just quickly on the CIO. Does the nature of these instruments, these over-the-counter instruments, make
you reconsider whether or not all of the controls and risk management and everything else you're putting in place
can be effective?
JAMIE DIMON: It's not the nature of the instruments. A lot of these things are traded on exchanges. Most of the
indexes, you can go buy and sell in the marketplace easily. Most of them are on clearing houses, and if you want
to see, you can see them. I think this portfolio became very big and very complex. That is true. It should never,
ever, ever have gotten that big and that complex. And at May 10, the first thing I said -- it was too big, it was
un-vetted, it shouldn't have been done, it was illiquid. It was bad. We should have caught it earlier.
CHRIS WHALEN: But that's my point. When you have an instrument that doesn't have a clear basis, and the
basis may shift, the correlations may shift very quickly, can you manage that risk?
JAMIE DIMON: That's true for all financial instruments.
CHRIS WHALEN: Three quick regulatory questions. On Basel, to what extent does the Volcker rule
implementation limit your ability to manage the AFS portfolio?
JAMIE DIMON: Not at all. The AFS portfolio is held for sale, so, it's marked to market in the equity account, but
not marked-to-market. We think you should be allowed to portfolio hedge. We're not going to do something like
this again. But we think a pure portfolio hedge is not necessarily a bad thing. So, we all talk about Europe. One of
the quick ways, you want to go hedge Europe, right now you get on the phone, you can buy $1 billion of
[protection] on European, or 120 European credit names. That is a good thing if you want to protect yourselves in
Europe. Not that complex. So, if Volcker changes the future for a whole bunch of things, we'll adapt to that,
whatever that is.
CHRIS WHALEN: On Basel III, how do you expect Basel III implementation to affect your mortgage business?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: On a Basel III basis, it's not material. The real issue is the NPR on Basel I, and that's a
work in progress. But all the numbers that you see there in the projections we have, just assume continued
growth in the mortgage business. So, we will get some benefit that run-off portfolio is going to liberate a
substantial amount of Basel III capital, and as a result, RWA as a result free up some capital.
JAMIE DIMON: As a business matter, we'll be fine with whatever the Basel III numbers are. It is a little complex. It
does create all these things about mezzanine pieces, how securitization is going to work with the FICO score.
Like FICO at a 660 would be very bad under Basel III. So, everyone would have to modify their business plan
because of Basel III. It won't change the Mortgage, our ability to be in the Mortgage business.
CHRIS WHALEN: Last question, how do you feel about extension of the FDIC transaction account guarantee
program?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm not sure what you're talking about. (multiple speakers) I'm not going to comment on that.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Moshe Orenbuch.

Page 17 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Doug had mentioned about the material weakness related to
the CIO office. The comments about the resubmission of the CCAR, and the time frame into the early fourth
quarter, does that contemplate resolving all of the regulatory inquiries that are ongoing, in addition to the Board,
and do you anticipate orders coming out? How should we think about the news flow from that standpoint?
JAMIE DIMON: We're hopeful that when the Board finishes its review, the regulators get to look at everything that
Mike has said and done, ask their questions, file the CCAR, we're hopeful that by the first quarter, we'll be able to
buy back stock. We think the numbers justify it, we think the performance of the Company justifies it, but we want
to go through that process, it's a prudent thing to do, and if something stops that from happening, then so be it.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thank you very much.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Brennan Hawken.
BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Brennan Hawken, UBS. So, just -- and I appreciate that maybe you guys
didn't include some of the synthetic gains in your estimates of earnings power, but it might help if, when we're
looking at these past CIO gains and net income, if we can know how much of that was attributed to the synthetic?
So, you've got $2 billion over 2007 to 2011, including a portion of that's in that [$9.2 billion] from 2009 to 2011. Is
most of that $2 billion there in the 2009 to 2011; can you give us an idea there?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Figure was about $1.4 billion of the $2 billion was in 2008 to 2010.
JAMIE DIMON: Was that pretax?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Pretax.
JAMIE DIMON: Those numbers are after tax.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, so, that's (inaudible). Great. And then, do you know if, with the CCAR resubmission,
is the scenario going to change, or is it going to be the same?
MIKE CAVANAGH: They are refreshing and updating their scenario. We're going to run a new scenario pursuant
to their guidelines.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: And the discussions, I would assume, Jamie, your confidence that 4Q could get it started,
that is reflective of what you've heard back from the Fed as well?
JAMIE DIMON: What I said is we're hopeful. And I've been wrong before.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Fair enough. And then my last one, I don't know if you can comment on this, but it would
be helpful to know -- do you guys have specific controls that separate communications between derivatives
traders and the LIBOR rate submission employees?
JAMIE DIMON: We're not going to comment on anything like that right now.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. Thanks.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Ed Najarian.
ED NAJARIAN: Yes, question for Doug. You talked about some of the net interest margin pressure coming from
hedging effectiveness. Could you quantify, of the 10 basis points, how much you think that is, and do you expect
that to revert in the third quarter? And then just generally, given the really oppressively low interest rate
environment that we're in right now, maybe some sense of your view on the net interest income trajectory of the
Company?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So, on the first, it was several basis points of the impact. It's going to vary
quarter-on-quarter. And it has varied quarter-on-quarter. So, part of the difference this quarter is we had some
positive results last quarter, and negative results and swing is what's important from a NIM standpoint. On NII, in
aggregate, we have some portfolio run-offs and we've been -- we provided you some guidance around that. We
continue to build our balances and build our loan portfolios, so, the question's going to be -- which exceeds the
other here.

Page 18 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: One disclosure you're going to see is this AFS portfolio's yielding 2.6%, but this quarter it's going
to be 2.47%, that is hedging effectiveness. It's really still [using] 2.6%. So, (inaudible) just a few hedging
effectiveness went in, and it goes against the asset.
ED NAJARIAN: As a quick follow-up, you talked about potentially being close to zero in terms of mortgage
repurchase costs, at least through the income statement over the next several quarters. Can you give us maybe a
little more commentary around that? Are you seeing a significant decline in claims starting to come in? And then
secondarily, can you make any comments in terms of your sense of what's going on in the private label side of
Mortgage repurchases, either in terms of claims or with respect to litigation?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So, the real differential there has been a modest decline, the real differential is our cure
rates. Because as these demands go deeper into the securities, they're taking more mortgages that have been
paying for longer, and the result of that is we've been decreasing the amount of demands we actually have to
repurchase. That's really been driving in part the analysis. On the private label side, you'll see in our supplement,
we had a modest increase in demands, but much of that is going to make its way through litigation.
ED NAJARIAN: So, your statement about zero really excludes any thoughts about that litigation?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's separate. Separate and distinct.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thanks.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Chris Kotowski.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, also for Doug. I wonder if you could walk us
through a little bit on the changes in the Basel III ratio. At the end of March, you reported 8.4%. This is 7.9%.
Obviously, the NPR must have had an impact there. I was wondering if you could break down what the bigger
chunks of that impact are. Is it the treatment of home equity loans or --?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Sure. Actually, 20 basis points was refinement of our earnings as a function of the
restatement, so, there was some move from the restatement. Actually, about 10 basis points. The remaining 30
basis points, you can think about that principally as the CRM minimum that was added to the Basel 2.5 rules.
That's the bulk of the RWA. It's an increase of about $40 billion for our portfolio. We would estimate, because that
is subject to model approval, and you need at least 12 months of operation model approval from the first quarter
of 2013. So, we're hopeful that $40 billion comes back into, and it's included in some of those projections that
Jamie showed you come back as a reduction. So, we were pretty close on our Basel III estimates.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Now, the way I read it though, in home equity loans in particular, it looked like for over 80%
loan to values that you were going to have a 1.5 times capital charge?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's Basel I.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's Basel I. Basel III rules didn't really change very much for the Mortgage portfolio.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. Great. Thank you.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: [Vin Freudenlich].
VIN FREUDENLICH, ANALYST: Thank you. I understand from your information that one of the reasons for the
losses here was that perhaps the success of the unit led to some complacency in overall governance of the unit.
Yet, as I look through some of the discovery information, it seems that the risk management profile here was one
that excluded certain basic tenets of risk management -- granular levels of asset concentration risk, et cetera.
That begs the question -- was this unit ill-conceived from a risk management perspective from day one, and it
took five years to reach the end result? Were there perhaps some small successive lapses in credit management
over time that ultimately, and perhaps we can look at the new VaR model as inadvertently being one of those that
ultimately led to this result?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I would say it's something that the complexity of synthetic credit was there over five years,
and there were things that obviously we could have caught it sooner, but it didn't until the circumstances of the
first quarter get us. But the overall mistake was allowing something that wasn't like the rest of the ALM type of
activities to get housed inside CIO. That had one form of risk management structure, and then put something new
in that required a whole different type of risk wrapped around it, and didn't do it at the time.
Page 19 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Todd Hagerman.
TODD HAGERMAN, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH: Mike and Jamie -- Mike, you talked a lot about the
VaR model, some of the changes. Jamie, you've talked in the past about your feelings one way or the other, in
terms of the usefulness of VaR, if you will. And what I'm curious about is, with all the discussion on VaR if you will,
what changes have been made in terms of the dependence on the models themselves, and how that relates back
to the risk management and the model group? And what other controls, tools you may have put in place, to again
make this a more robust process, if you will?
JAMIE DIMON: First of all, we don't run a business in models. And if you do run a business in models, you will be
dead. It doesn't work. VaR is one model. We use tons of other models, and I think Mike pointed out, the right way
to do it is have lots of other granular limits -- notional amount limits, credit spread limits, single name limits, all
these things. VaR is just one. VaR does not capture underlying changes in underwriting, it doesn't capture
changes in correlations, it's only backward looking. It's a data point that helps you manage your business. That's
all it is.
Now, having said that, Mike, we've got to do a better job implementing some of these models.
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's the process of (inaudible) models, not the models themselves. That's the finding there.
The granularity risk, those are the two big take-aways, if you look at the findings, that I would say, is get the right
limits around the activity, one. That's not necessarily a VaR model or any one given type of activity, but if we're
going to put things in, we've got to have belt and suspenders to make sure we approve it for the right reasons,
and have the right operational support around it.
TODD HAGERMAN: Just as a follow-up, my understanding as an example with the CCAR process and the
review of the trading operations specifically, a lot of dependence was placed on the models in terms of that
review. What are you sensing now in terms of, given the event that's transpired, how that evaluation is going to
change on a go-forward basis, particularly as we think about next year's CCAR process in light of this event?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think we've brought, certainly put a lot of attention on it ourselves, and I think the take-aways
that we saw was this just bolstering all processes around model governance, implementation approval, a new
team. We took 25-year veteran risk manager in charge of a new group that's really going to lead up, watching
model activities, all parts of process, because really the mistake we made here was roles and responsibilities. So,
whereas, I would say we're very good in particularly our Investment Bank, which the heaviest user of models;
we've got very robust in-business market risk teams, that have the handoff of dealing with parallel testing, back
testing, running the operational model themselves. CIO was weaker in that regard. So, when you have the
interaction between the independent model of review group, and the market risk teams in the business, again, a
particular mistake here. That's a policy and procedure thing that we've tightened up, and John Hogan's done a lot
in the past month.
JAMIE DIMON: CCAR is not VaR dependent. Stress testing is more important. We do extensive stress testing.
And so, to me, you've got to get that right. So, CCAR has embedded in it, is one test. We do hundreds of stress
tests, and obviously we should have done stress test in this particular portfolio better, too.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Paul Miller.
PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Thanks. Jamie, I think the 10-year today is right around 1.5%. We keep
on hoping, as banking analysts, that it keeps on going up, but every quarter it goes down. The 10-year, the flat
year curve, which is starting to really weigh on a lot of people's net interest margins. Your net interest margin was
down like 13, 14 basis points. It really feels like this 10-year is not going to move, and we're going to live with a
flat yield curve longer than anybody wished, maybe even 2014, 2015. How does you, as a bank, position yourself
for that environment, even if it goes down, but a lot of people are thinking at 1% at this point.
JAMIE DIMON: I'm not talking about going down to 1%, but we're getting near the end of the margin compression
from the yield curve. If I remember correctly, about a year or two ago, we might lose another $400 million or $500
million, and then it flattens out. If the 10 goes down more, it's even more. We're short -- most banks have much
longer duration than we do. We could easily today put on -- change what we're doing, and put on $50 billion in
mortgage at 3% and earn a lot more. If you really believe that, we could change our structure to earn back some
of that income, in fact, far more than what you might lose from --.
PAUL MILLER: Take a bigger step back. If we're going to be living with this flat yield curve, banks like to live with
a steep yield curve. That's what we've all been raised on for the last three or four decades, but if we're going to
live in this environment, how do banks operate? How are you positioning your institution to go forward with a
Page 20 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

continued flat yield curve? Yes, you can adjust the balance sheet. That's a one-time issue. But going forward,
how would you run this institution?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think -- most of the effect of a yield curve has gone away. If it stays like this forever, we're
still going to earn about what we're earning. It isn't like you have to deal with a negative every year after every
year. How you do your loans and your deposits and a lot of things on our balance sheet, which earn very little,
because we're almost doing them as a service for clients, you might do less of that. But you still have $200 billion
of Treasury assets we have. We're earning 5 basis points on that. We don't need to keep those deposits. We may
modify that. But you'll change your pricing, your products, your services, to try to earn a fair return on capital.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Gerard Cassidy.
GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Gerard Cassidy, RBC Capital Markets. Doug, you
touched on the LCR ratio in the Basel III. Do you guys have an estimate of where that is today? The liquidity
ratio?
JAMIE DIMON: So, basically, if you did the number today, you might show a gap, but that gap is easy for us to fix
by just changing our asset mix. We will be LCR-compliant by reinvesting the AFS portfolio or doing their slight
different things. We want to see the final rules before we start swinging the balance sheets all over the place.
We'll be fine. We're a very liquid Company.
GERARD CASSIDY: Following up on the yield curve commentary that you just made, Jamie, are the returns
acceptable? As you pointed out, there is not any incremental negative impact for you guys if the yield curve stays
this way. Are the returns on equity acceptable, or would you try some other strategy, possibly shrinking the
balance sheet, and buying back even more stock?
JAMIE DIMON: We ask that question all the time, but we're actually, believe it or not, getting good returns right
now. When you look at the returns in our businesses, a 15% return on tangible equity, the record earnings. So,
could you do more? What we like to do is build the business -- bankers, services, clients, execution services, to
grow our business over time, and we've been doing that. That's what we focus on, and we'll modify pricing,
products and balance sheet to get a fair return.
GERARD CASSIDY: Finally, maybe your comments on what you're seeing in Europe, how they're progressing on
solving some of those problems, you want to add any color to that?
JAMIE DIMON: It's very hard to add to the debate you read about every day. You're now reading about what they
kind of need to do, and they need to do kind of all of them. Have a European bank regulator, a European bank
scheme to stop bank runs, have some facility that could finance the Italian and Spanish sovereign debt in the
meantime, and then fiscal union that people believe in. And we think you're going to see that kind of in fits and
starts over time. Just be prepared for the roller coaster.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Michael Lipper.
MICHAEL LIPPER, ANALYST, LIPPER ADVISORY SERVICES: Good morning, Jamie.
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)
MICHAEL LIPPER: -- as assets, and 76 as liabilities. Two questions. Can you tell us how much of those are
netted from the same counterparty? And second, how much of those numbers was the CIO numbers in that at the
end of that quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm going to do the second one first. I think it's a very small -- CIO is a very small part of that
number. That's number one.
Number two, there are very complex lending rules, which I don't want to go through here about derivatives, but we
did do a presentation at one point showing exactly how derivatives net by counterparty. We would be happy to
share that with you and take you through it.
MICHAEL LIPPER: Thank you.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Make an announcement for the phone. If you're on the phone, please put yourself in the
queue at this point. We're going to take a few more questions in the room, then we're going to move to the phone.
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) There are no questions via the phone line.
Page 21 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Okay. So, then let's continue. Nancy again.
NANCY BUSH: Nancy Bush again. Mike, a question for you. Looking at your slide number 8, the events in late
April, you say senior corporate risk management team began on-site bottom-up engagement on April 27. Had a
senior risk management team done an on-site bottom-up engagement in the CIO before, and is that now sort of
an established part of risk management?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's a good question, Nancy. What we referred to there is, in late April, that's the stage at
which John Hogan over there and a team of folks from outside CIO and across business went in to really sit
on-site and pick the book apart. Prior to that, there was obviously work being done with senior risk folks, but
looking through the lens of the CIO risk team. So, it took it to a different level of intrusion.
JAMIE DIMON: The CIO risk team did an inadequate job.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: [Chris Lafayette]
CHRIS LAFAYETTE, ANALYST: One critique of the industry has always been the incentive structure. I'm just
wondering if, in the CIO review, there was any conclusions based on, if incentives were aligned with long-term
shareholder interest?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Sure. We obviously looked at all that. None of the people in CIO are on any form of formulas;
the business is not on a formula. We obviously looked at compensation for what we were doing in CIO, relative to
what you would see pay related to running a $350 billion fixed income portfolio. Can't obviously get in the minds
of the individuals that -- in making individual decisions, but we look for evidence of particular things that were
problematic around our compensation schemes, and found no particular issues.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Matt Burnell.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Matt Burnell from Wells Fargo Securities. A
couple quick questions for you, Doug. You mentioned that the net interest margin effect of the AFS gain, or the
securities that were sold to generate the gains this quarter had no effect on this quarter's NIM. Does that imply
any effect on future quarters' NIM as well?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No.
MATT BURNELL: Depending on when the sales were done?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No. More a function of reinvestment.
MATT BURNELL: Fair enough. Okay. And then in terms of the investment banking, and sales and trading results,
those appear to be, even if you strip out the DVA, reasonably strong. Could you give us a sense as to what your
outlook is for those numbers, to the extent you can guess it, and what the drag from Europe is on your outlook
there for the next quarter or two?
JAMIE DIMON: First of all, as you know, Investment Banking revenues are unpredictable by their nature.
Whenever they come in with a low number, I would say -- well, it could be much higher. Right now, it looks similar
to what it was last quarter. That can change at any one point in time. I think you see everywhere, business in Asia
and Europe are down. America remains to be seen.
MATT BURNELL: One final question. Given all the information that Mike provided to us, how much of that
information, or will there be more information, not only provided to the regulators, but some of your friends on
Capitol Hill?
JAMIE DIMON: We share a lot of information with people who ask. The regulators are completely up-to-date on
all of Mike's information. Right? They've been through this several --?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Absolutely. More than absolutely.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: David Sochol.
DAVID SOCHOL, ANALYST, LEVIN CAPITAL: Thank you. [Dave Sochol, Levin Capital]. Maybe from a
perspective of a buy-sider and a long-suffering shareholder and my clients, I'd like to follow up on Mike Mayo's
question and also reference a KBW report that looked at the potential of splitting off the Chase Consumer bank
with Auto and Credit, and having a standalone JPMorgan Commercial Bank, Investment Bank, Trust, and TSS.
Page 22 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

And the point being, not just the tipping point or actual dis-economies of scale, and even if there are economies of
scale, the stock market refuses to acknowledge it, in terms of the multiple continuing to come down. I look at the
track record over the past year or so, and notwithstanding the great performance relative to a pretty low bar, but
still a good performance.
But we've had the mortgage servicing issues, mortgage foreclosure issues, military veteran issues, energy,
commodities, sales practices, now this inexcusable just unbelievable CIO debacle, now potential LIBOR. And I
think about what has to happen for either you as a management team or you as a Board to finally say -- we are a
great institution and we own a lot of great businesses, but we have reached that point where we are too big to
manage, and in the interest of our shareholders, there's a different corporate structure that would better serve
your owners? Thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: I beg to differ, okay? And there's huge strength in this Company that the units get from each
other. We don't have the strategy of we're guessing at things. The Investment Bank serves the commercial bank.
The TSS gets huge order flow to the Investment Bank. We think there's enormous amount of cross-sell. And we
do it just as much as anybody else out there between the Consumer Bank, Small Business, Private Wealth
Management, Credit Card, Mortgage, and our job is to do a great job serving clients, grow the business, and
eventually the stock will reflect it.
And so, I think also, people splitting off companies -- my whole life, is people splitting off the higher P, lower P.
That's very short-term stuff. Have a strategy, execute on it, and build the business, that's how you build value. We
don't feel great that we haven't done a great job for shareholders recently, that we completely acknowledge, but
we're going to keep on building the Company, and one day the stock will reflect it. If the Board ever thought there
were better strategies, that will be considered at the time.
DAVID SOCHOL: I would respectfully say that certainly the cross-sell is very obvious, and that's why I would not
look at separating it into numerous companies, but I'm just wondering at what point it does become more
apparent that there are dis-economies, and is a potential that -- is it possible that had CIO been part of a smaller
institution, it would have gotten the management look that it required?
JAMIE DIMON: Hundreds of small banks have gone bankrupt. Okay? Mono lines went bankrupt. (multiple
speakers) You could argue the other way. There's a huge source of strength in how strong this Company is
through all these storms, can do Bear Stearns and WaMu, do all these wonderful things. CIO was a mistake, and
we're sorry.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Glenn Schorr.
GLENN SCHORR: Two very quick follow-ups. One, I want to make sure on the LIBOR issue, I understand all the
things that you can't talk about mid-investigation, but I'm assuming this has been going on for a while, that you've
had three, six, maybe more months of internal investigations. Is there anything you can tell us, comment on?
JAMIE DIMON: No.
GLENN SCHORR: All right. One last try. Okay. Doug, on the commentary --?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No.
GLENN SCHORR: All right, Mike. On the expense commentary, second half from first half, just technical
question. Does that exclude the $3 billion or so of litigation reserve build in the first half, or is it all inclusive?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We talk about the adjusted expense excludes that.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Thanks.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Operator, I think we have a question from John McDonald.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I actually had two. Glenn just
stole them both. But I guess just one more slight attempt on the LIBOR. Do you have any sense of how long the
issue will overhang on the industry, and whether we'll get some kind of clarity about the investigations over the
Summer, or if this is something that could drag on for a long time. Any insight on when we're going to get some
more information on it?
JAMIE DIMON: We have no special insight, okay?
Page 23 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Richard Ramsden.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Just a quick follow-up either for Jamie or Mike. Was the process of valuing positions in the
CIO book different to the Investment Bank, or was it just the application of the valuation technique, and I'm
referring specifically to the Q1 restatement? Thanks.
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's the application of policies are the same across businesses, different applications.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Ed Najarian.
ED NAJARIAN: Jamie, quick follow-up on sort of your perspective on capital. So, since Investor Day in February,
seems like the world's gotten a little bit to be a scarier place in terms of, we're more concerned about Europe, we
have the LIBOR thing has cropped up, we're talking more about global economic slowdown. I know you
mentioned you would love to buy back stock at 1 times tangible book, but is there anything about the last several
months of events, just from a macro standpoint, that make you want to drive to higher capital ratios, or get to
9.5% on Basel III Tier 1 common equity faster than you might have thought you wanted to back in February?
JAMIE DIMON: A little bit. And you know what those things are. It's Europe, fiscal cliff in the United States. It's all
those things would make you be a little more cautious. Again, I think we're going to earn money next year
regardless of those things, whatever happens.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Gerard Cassidy.
GERARD CASSIDY: Mike, you gave us a very thorough detailed disclosure how you attacked this problem with
the CIO. You're very confident that you have your arms around it. Do the regulators have that same confidence?
Have they shared that with you that they feel very good that you guys have licked this problem?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I can't speak for the regulators, but certainly they have been -- we have spent a lot of time
with them to keep them informed, and obviously wanted to guide our work from the get-go in a way that was
going to satisfy a lot of different constituencies.
JAMIE DIMON: They're going to do their own work as they should, and come to their own conclusions. The Board
has an independent group which is still guiding the task force, and will come to its own conclusions, too.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Brennan Hawken.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Mike, when you went through your review, do you think that maybe the idea that there was
no formula for comp in CIO might have led to some of the trouble, and the stretching? And then on a go-forward
basis, as the follow-up, which is probably more important, how are you guys thinking about structuring comp in
the CIO office over the next few years?
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, I mean, I don't think -- when we talk about formulas, individuals getting a cut of revenue,
none of that existed, and I don't think that's a good thing. I think the kind of practices that are common in CIO are
the same as what we do on our Investment Bank, is taking the totality of managers' subjective judgment of
performance and a multi-year view of how good a person is doing their job over multiple years. All of that together
with the pay practices of how we defer compensation, all are sound policies, and it's the application obviously that
you have to get right. Matt, who is now running CIO, I'm sure will bring his own individual management style to
doing that, but we didn't walk away with a feeling that there's anything different about that unit of the Company, or
that the Company broadly should be doing differently around administering compensation.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: And the idea now that we don't have synthetic in CIO, clearly that's going to mean we
should probably just assume more volatile results out of that business, particularly in times when credit's getting a
little funky?
JAMIE DIMON: No, no.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Obviously with the recent portfolio as an exception.
JAMIE DIMON: Double A plus, it's an AFS portfolio, it's not marked-to-market in the P&L. It's got a 3.7-year
average life, it's 80% government guaranteed or government type of entity guaranteed. You're not going to have
more volatility in it. If we have a small hedge there, and you see we hedge more in Europe, that's why we need
the ability to hedge. Very little to do with AFS. The AFS subordinates the rest of the Company. Nothing would
Page 24 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

please us more than to reduce AFS and make some more great loans. They can't say --be paid just on the
revenues of their profit, because they're not there for that. They're in the management of this portfolio. We need
some very good people, there's $350 billion, it operates, I forget out of how many countries, and multiple
currencies. We need some very good people managing that book, just like you would with PIMCO or Black Rock,
big fixed income portfolio.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: [Eric Veiel]
ERIC VEIEL, ANALYST: Doug, can you just help us understand why the default servicing expenses aren't coming
through as fast as you thought, and when they might start coming through?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I mentioned three things. Obviously the operation of the consent order; second is this
independent foreclosure review. Those costs are larger, and are going on longer than we expected. Third is, we
just continue to have a lot of default properties that we're processing through. Those will come down over time,
but they haven't. They remain at a level. So, our expectation is -- we had thought we would see more movement
in the second, third and fourth quarter. It's more likely that's a 2013 event.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Do we have any additional questions on the phone?
OPERATOR: We do from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Doug, just a question for you on the margin.
Just wanted to help, if you could flush out why we saw a decline? It seemed like in the trading assets you had
securities borrow turn negative in terms of the yield. Other trading assets understood that you have a lower rate
environment. But on the flip side, the cost of the trading assets on the liability side seemed to go up. Is that the
hedging impact, or could you kind of explain a little bit more detail on why we're seeing this dynamic of a negative
spread and securities borrowed and other issues.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I'll get back to you on that.
JIM MITCHELL: Okay. I'll follow up, thanks.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Thanks.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Any other questions on the phone?
OPERATOR: No, ma'am, not at this time.
SARAH YOUNGWOOD: Any questions in the room?
JAMIE DIMON: Folks, thank you very much for spending some time with us. Better news next time.
OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
Page 25 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020120727e87d000ul

Page 26 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

