Q2 2011 JPMorgan Chase & CoEarnings Conference Call - Final
13,316 words
14 July 2011
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the JPMorgan Chase's second-quarter 2011
earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. Your lines have been placed on mute throughout the
duration of the call. We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by. At this time I would like to turn the
call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein.
Mr. Braunstein, please go ahead.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator. I'm going to walk you through the
earnings presentation; it's available on the website. We'll take questions after walking through the presentation.
And please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation. So with
that let's turn to page 1.
For the quarter we generated net income of $5.4 billion, $1.27 a share on $27.4 billion in revenues. We're
highlighting several significant items in the quarter, they're included in the numbers for the lines of business
throughout the presentation, but I'll walk through them quickly.
First, as we've done in previous quarters, we're noting significant loan loss reserve releases. This quarter we
have a $0.15 per share increase in earnings from a reduction in card services, allowance for loan losses. We're
identifying a $0.12 per share increase in earnings from securities gains in the investment portfolio in Corporate.
Third, you'll see a $0.15 per share decrease in earnings related to incremental expected costs for foreclosure
related matters, and I'll talk about that later. And then finally, a $0.19 per share decrease in earnings from
additional litigation reserves predominantly for mortgage-related matters and that runs through Corporate.
We ended the quarter with significant Tier 1 common, $121 billion. We continue to maintain strong Basel I and B
III ratios of 10.1% and 7.6% pro forma respectively. And these capital ratios also incorporate the impact of the
repurchase of $3.5 billion worth of JPMorgan shares in the quarter. You'll also see ROE in the quarter was 12%;
our return on tangible common equity of 17%, and those two numbers are circled on the next page.
And then broadly speaking, we did have solid performance across the lines of business, but there were two
positive trends for credit. First, we are reporting positive loan growth across each of our wholesale businesses,
total loan growth in wholesale, $32 billion year over year or 15% and $12.5 billion or 5% increased on the quarter.
And then second, we're continuing to show improvement in our consumer credit trends, but I'll talk about those in
specifics.
So with that, when we turn to page three, which is the Investment Bank, you see circled net income of $2.1 billion,
that's on revenue of $7.3 billion. We had strong IB fees in the quarter of $1.9 billion, that's up 37% year on year.
We continue to be ranked number one in fees, but it still remains a highly competitive marketplace.
We demonstrated particularly strong results in our advisory and equities revenues this quarter and, for those that
like to look at the league tables, they're in the back on page 19. We had solid market revenues of $5.5 billion, up
20% year on year, down 17% quarter on quarter from the first quarter which is seasonally strong.
$4.3 billion in revenues in fixed income, and this generally represented consistent client flows across all of our
businesses in fixed income despite the difficult macroeconomic environment. $1.2 billion in revenues in equities -Page 1 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

very good results particularly given the volume declines in the cash market and the overall volatility. Prime
services continued to grow this quarter and we launched our International Equity Prime Brokerage platform in
Europe, we expect to do the same in Asia in the first quarter of 2012.
Credit costs, you see a $180 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, that's largely related to net
repayments and you see non-accrual loans declined to $1.7 billion this quarter. Just remember, we do expect
credit costs to normalize going forward.
Expenses in the quarter are $4.3 billion in the Investment Bank, down 4% year on year and you see
comp-to-revenue ratios of 35%. We continue to expect to maintain a 35% to 40% comp to revenue range for the
full year. And the final note is you did see modest loan growth in the IB balances up 3% quarter on quarter. Some
of that growth is driven by the build out in our loan book associated with the Global Corporate Bank. And on the
international side revenues grew for the first six months of this year 11% from the first six months or first half of
last year.
Page 4, Retail Financial Services -- this is, as you remember, the consolidated view. I'll just spend a moment
here. A little over $580 million in net income in the quarter on $8 billion worth of revenue. Let's jump into the
details on page 5.
So if you go to the top of the page on page 5, Retail Banking, we had solid performance in net income of $1.1
billion, that's on revenues of a a little under $4.6 billion. Revenues were up 5% year on year, that's a function of
higher debit card revenue, deposit-related fees, investment sales and offset slightly by lower deposit spreads.
Key drivers from the prior page, we had 6% deposit growth, investment sales revenues were up 10% year on
year, Business Banking originations up 31% year on year. We built 52 new branches this quarter.
And then just a quick note to the right, you see on Durbin we do anticipate the annualized gross revenue impact
for the retail banking segment to be $1 billion plus or minus. As you know, the final rules won't be implemented
until the 1st of October, so we won't see that impact until the fourth quarter. And we would expect mitigating
actions to close a significant amount of that gross impact over time.
Bottom of the page, Mortgage Banking, Auto and Other Consumer, net loss of $450 million on revenues of $2.2
billion. Revenues excluding MSR of $2.1 billion reflect $34 billion of mortgage loan originations this quarter, wider
margins year over year, solid performance in Chase Auto in the quarter. And then you see lower repurchase
losses, $223 million for the quarter, remember that's contra revenue.
And just a comment on repurchase losses, they're lower than trendline this quarter just for timing-related matters,
and we do expect the next two quarters to be more in line with our guidance of $1.2 billion for full 2011 run rate.
You see expenses in the segment of $2.6 billion and that includes the $1 billion incremental I discussed on page
1 related to foreclosure-related matters. Other expenses continue to remain elevated as well and that largely
reflects the ongoing high cost associated with default-related expenses.
With that why don't we turn to page 6 and the Real Estate Portfolio? You see net income loss of $66 million, that's
on revenues of $1.2 billion, down about $150 million year on year and that is a function of lower NII associated
with portfolio runoff. Balances declined year on year a little under $30 billion, a little under $7 billion quarter on
quarter, but the NII impact is consistent with the guidance we've previously given you related to a $700 million run
rate for 2011.
Details of credit on page 7. You see the circled number here, net charge-offs of $944 million, modest
improvement versus the prior quarter. If you take a look at page 17 in the appendix you'll see delinquency rates
have also declined modestly across all the portfolios and, all other things being equal, that would have a positive
impact on future charge-offs.
I would remind folks that the second quarter tends to be positively impacted by seasonality. So you might see
modest increases in the back half of the year, all other things being equal.
So if you step back here, given some of the uncertainty in the economic environment, the impact of severities
related to potential declines in HPI and future delinquencies, as well as some of the industry discussions with
regulators, we've made no changes to reserves this quarter in either our non-credit impaired or our purchase
credit-impaired. You also see we've maintained our guidance of $1.2 billion plus or minus per quarter. Obviously if
these trends that we just reported continue we'll re-adjust that guidance.
Page 2 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Page 8 -- we've updated a slide here that we used in Q4; it really lays out all our thoughts related to the
mortgage-related reserve positions and I'd say there are two pieces to this slide. On the top you've got Real
Estate Portfolio reserves and agency repurchase reserves, so start with Real Estate.
NCI reserves $9.7 billion at the end of this quarter; they're more than two times our second-quarter net charge-off
annualized rate of $3.8 billion. On the PCI side we believe we're appropriately reserved based on our best
estimates of life of loan losses for this category.
You should note that includes HPI deterioration of approximately 5% from current levels. And in order to give you
some sensitivity, an additional 5% decline in HPI, which would be a total of 10% from today, would add about
$1.5 billion to our reserves for that category.
On the agency repurchase reserve side, $3.6 billion of reserves and remember, our guidance is $1.2 billion plus
or minus for 2011 for RFS. So if you stop and think about these two items, if credit trends do improve and
repurchase demands diminish over time, which inevitably they will; this may lead to a further reduction in those
two reserve levels.
Now the last two items talk about incremental exposure. So first, foreclosure-related matters. We added $1 billion
to previously existing reserves for this category and we believe our current reserves are our best estimate as to
the various costs for a whole multitude of complex foreclosure-related matters. But that includes fees and
assessments related to foreclosure delays as well as payments for other settlements including the DOJ State
Attorney General and others.
For private label we continue to build litigation reserves for this issue; we added to that in the quarter, as I told
you. And so if you step back for these two items, we believe these reserves are our best current estimates, but
we do have a long way to go until these items fully play out and we could incur additional expenses for both of
them. But ultimately in time we expect the cost for all of these items on the page to normalize.
So with that let me move on to page 9, Card Services. Circled net income of a little over $900 million, revenues of
$3.9 billion, credit continues to be the story here. If you focus on the circled numbers at the bottom of the page, a
5.28% charge-off rate for the Chase portfolio, that's an improvement of a little over 90 basis points from last
quarter. 30 plus day delinquencies declined to 2.73% this quarter, that's improvement of a little over 50 basis
points from last quarter and is a very low rate on an absolute basis.
As a result of these improvements in our delinquencies, we did reduce our estimated future losses and, as a
result, released $1 billion of loan loss reserves pre-tax.
And then just a quick moment on guidance for Q3. Because of the continued signs of improvement we're seeing
we do expect 3Q charge-off rate to be 4.5% plus or minus and that was our estimate, as you may recall, that we
would reach that level mid-2012. So rapid improvement in this portfolio.
Revenue picture similar to last quarter but down year over year. And the lower revenues in year over year are
driven by an average reduction in balances outstanding of $21 billion year over year. That's been offset similar to
the prior quarter in very positive sales volume, Chase volumes up 10% year over year, 11% quarter on quarter.
We continue to believe that sales volume is outpacing industry sales growth and, as a result, we think we're
improving our market share. I'd also highlight net revenue rate at the bottom, 11.95% excluding WaMu and
Commercial Card. That's up almost 50 basis points quarter on quarter and it's in line with the steady-state target
of 12% that Gordon shared with you all at Investor Day.
And then a final comment on balances. We are experiencing very high repayment rates and if those persist
outstanding balances could be between $115 billion and $120 billion at year end.
Page 10, the Commercial Bank, circled net income of $600 million, that's on record revenues this quarter of $1.6
billion. Revenues up 9% year on year, that's growth in liability and loan balances. Record gross IB revenues this
quarter for the customer base. You see a circled end of period balance of loans of a little under $103 billion, that's
up $2.5 billion quarter on quarter, $7 billion year on year. And that balance has increased for each of the last four
consecutive quarters.
The Middle Market end of period balances are up 17% year on year and they've actually increased five
consecutive quarters. And again, we think loan growth is a mix of demand, market share gains as well as the
affects of the buildout of the WaMu expansion states. The utilization rates for loans continues to remain low, but
we did actually see this quarter a modest uptick in Middle Market utilization rates.
Page 3 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

And then just a final note, you see the liability balances grew almost 20% year on year to $163 billion. That
continues to be driven by clients generating free cash flow and their own balance sheets continue to improve.
Page 11, Treasury & Security Services, net income for the quarter of $330 million, up 14% year on year, 5%
quarter on quarter. TSS revenues and margin continue to be negatively impacted by the low rate environment we
have. Revenue growth in the quarter up 3% year on year, 6% year on year if you excluded the transfer of
Commercial Card to Card Services. Record assets under custody here, $16.9 trillion in WSS. Record trade loan
balances $27.5 billion, up 68% year on year, 8% quarter on quarter.
And just remember as well, the second quarter gets seasonal benefit from the dividend season and ADR activity.
Expenses continue to be up as we continue to invest in our international footprint and we're starting to see some
benefits to that. International revenue this quarter represented 55% of total revenue for TSS, that's up from 49% a
year ago and revenue internationally is up 16% year on year, 9% in the quarter.
Page 12, Asset Management, you see circled revenue of $2.5 billion. Solid revenue growth, 23% year on year,
was driven by higher performance fees, positive markets relative to last year and positive flows into our long-term
products up $19 billion quarter on quarter. This is now the ninth consecutive quarter of positive long-term flows in
Asset Management.
Circled net income of $440 million in the quarter, that's up 12% year on year, modestly down quarter on quarter
and that's on higher expenses from investment spend and higher performance-based compensation. Here again,
international revenue is up for this business 27% year on year.
13 is Corporate/Private Equity, $444 million in net income for Private Equity in the quarter, a strong quarter. Gains
reflect a number of specific realizations, improvements in the market value of positions we held in the quarter.
You see Corporate reported net income a little under $60 million, and two items run through this that we already
noted, the securities gains as well as the litigation expense. And we continue to have guidance -- absent these
significant items and absent Private Equity, Corporate should generate $300 million plus or minus per quarter.
Page 14, Fortress balance sheet, I've covered most of the items. We've added some additional items, a chart at
the bottom and some bullet points I want to highlight. Remember as it relates to Basel III, the countercyclical
buffer and the G-SIFI surcharge are going to come in over time and you see that in the chart to the bottom left.
The minimum in January of 2017 will be 7% and you see our current estimated Basel III of 7.6% today.
Second observation is we continue to believe we're going to generate significant excess capital over this period.
And I would say after investing for organic growth and consistent with meeting those guidelines over time, we
expect to be able to return excess capital to our shareholders. And we don't intend to accelerate the compliance
as it relates to the G-SIFI surcharge, but we'll get there over time.
I think page 15 I've covered, operator. So with that, why don't we open the line up for questions for Jamie and
myself?
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Glenn Schorr, Nomura.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Hi, thanks. A quick follow-up on your comments on the Fortress
balance sheet. If you don't plan on accelerating and you're obviously generating a lot of excess each quarter, do
you have buy-in from the regulators to deploy as you see fit? And I'm not implying that you're going to have a
100% payout ratio for the next five years, but curious on your thoughts on that.
JAMIE DIMON, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: So you have to apply under ICAAP, whatever it's called, to
regulators to increase dividends and buy back stock. We already announced we have the permission to $8 billion.
It's quite obvious to us we're going to have a lot of extra capital and cash, not just in the next short run but over
the next several years, and we will apply for more as appropriate. I can't tell you exactly what they're going to do.
GLENN SCHORR: Understood, understood. How about another swipe at capital at a different angle? If you -- I
think people are underestimating your ability to mitigate on the risk weighted asset side, and that will actually -supercharge actually your capital ratio growth over the next couple years. If you look at the buffer itself, the
G-SIFI buffer, the way I calculate it you have about an $11 billion capital penalty relative to any given pure play -JAMIE DIMON: Right.
Page 4 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GLENN SCHORR: -- of the businesses that you own. Is there anything that can be done about that whether it be
a spin or shrinkage or --? I'm almost as frustrated as you about it, but curious to get your thoughts on what can be
done about it.
JAMIE DIMON: You couldn't possibly be as frustrated as me, okay. But so I guess -- so you're right, it's how you
calculate it. But a lot of things are going to happen, Glenn. For example, I think it will force competitors in a lot of
areas to go to the higher number. So you're going to find a lot of people, they won't be able to survive at 7 in
whatever business they're in because all the other competitors are going to be at 8 or 9 or something like that.
But assuming your number is right, it is not a huge drag on returns, but it also gives the opportunity to cherry pick
the businesses you want. So I think you will see a lot of very tight management at RWA businesses, balance
sheet items, in a lot of the ways I personally think are a waste of time, but that's what will happen so that you can
get good adequate returns on capital.
In some ways a G-SIFI will be a plus; you'll win business that other people will have a hard time competing for. In
other things it could be a negative, like for example owning consumer assets might be a negative. On the other
hand, you can originate, sell, securitize, so you can still be in the generation business but not necessarily the
holding the asset business.
And I also think you'll see plenty of non-banks, good and bad, grow to handle and own some of these other asset
classes and other forms of securitizations do the same thing. So it's a long road and I still think we'll have very
good businesses when all is said and done.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay, thanks very much, I appreciate it.
OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, hi, good morning. Doug, there seems to be a big
buildup in liquidity on the balance sheet, you mentioned that. Can you give a little color on that? Is this being
driven by the lack of investment options amid low rates or is it being driven by the new regulatory rules that might
be coming out around liquidity?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We have deposits coming in Middle Market, TSS and we accept those deposits and we
have to invest them. So it's not a deliberate building up of liquidity, it's just dealing with the deposits as they come
in. Remember that liquidity is only one side of the balance sheet.
JOHN MCDONALD: And then any color on the net interest margin this quarter? Was that the big driver of the
decline sequentially in net interest margin this quarter.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It was a combination, Glenn, of we sold some certain assets, the Kohl's portfolio, a mix in
our loan balances towards more lower yielding assets and then deposit inflows you talked about.
JOHN MCDONALD: And is there any -- do you have any outlook on net interest margin or net interest income,
Doug?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I think if rates stay where they are you can continue to expect to see modest pressure on
NIM.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then just a question on expenses. Did you see the increase in FDIC premiums
this quarter? And could you tell us what that was?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, we did, and approximately $100 million.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And that's flowing in now?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Run rate on a $1 billion and change run rate total, increase of $100 million this quarter.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then --.
JAMIE DIMON: We're paying more FDIC insurance and we're paying for all the bankrupted banks.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And last thing from me, Jamie, could you give some commentary around your
exposure to the European countries that are the subject of concern and how you think about sizing downside risk
for you guys?
Page 5 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Right, so Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain is still about the net exposure, so it's net of
collateral and it's non-sovereign collateral of about $15 billion. Think of those exposures at the banks, sovereign
and corporates. And we're managing that exposure to -- we have a big business with those countries and we
intend to be in those countries for a long time. So we're not going to cut and run.
In my Chairman's letter I wrote about worst case, which I do not expect to happen even today, that it causes
maybe $3 billion after tax. That's my best guess, by the way, so that can obviously be dramatically different. I still
don't expect that.
The real impact of failures over there would be on what does it do to the global economy, what does it do to other
exposures in Europe, what does it do to exposure in the United States. And you can guess that as well as I can. I
don't expect it will be a disaster for French and German banks obviously with exposures in France and Germany
and elsewhere. But I think those things will probably all be fine.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, just a follow-up on that. Some people look at the
disclosure and looking at different pieces of the disclosure you can come to different conclusions as to whether or
not you're a net buyer or seller of protection on your credit. Could you just give a little color as to how you're
thinking about that as it relates to the European exposure that you have?
JAMIE DIMON: Buyer of credit exposure on the five nations I just spoke about?
BETSY GRASECK: On international -- I mean, you can't get to that level of detail obviously in the disclosure, but
you can see whether or not you're --.
JAMIE DIMON: Here's the problem with the numbers you see because there is a public disclosure that shows
those five countries like being $100 billion.
BETSY GRASECK: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: Right? But that $100 billion does not include collateral, it does not include hedging. And we do a
lot of hedging, both specific name and country hedging. So that's the issue with that. So my $15 billion is net of
hedging, net of collateral and I mean non-sovereign collateral. So we wouldn't include Greek collateral, Greek
sovereign collateral for a Greek repo. We would only include collateral outside of Greece. So that's where the $15
billion comes from. That is the best estimate of the exposure, it bounces around all the time.
BETSY GRASECK: Right. Okay, and then --.
JAMIE DIMON: You said (multiple speakers) there was some report in the press today I saw that Greece and -- I
mean Germany and France was $300 billion, same issue. Those are very gross exposures and the numbers
would be 10% of that.
BETSY GRASECK: Can you give us a sense as to how big of an exposure you're comfortable with?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I'm comfortable with the $15 billion right now.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: Remember, the bulk of that is Spain and Italy and a lot of that is also corporate. And you know,
corporates are -- you've got to be very careful when you talk about -- even when you had failures in Argentina and
Mexico a lot of the corporates were okay. So you've got to be very careful. We've been doing business with those
countries for a long period of time. So our current thinking is that we're going to continue to do business there and
manage those exposures, we're not trying to drive them down.
BETSY GRASECK: Well then, how do you --?
JAMIE DIMON: And I hope -- I hope that one day some of these European nations appreciate the fact we're not
cutting and running.
BETSY GRASECK: And then just separately on the Moody's, last night, announcement that they would put the
US government debt on review. How do you think about managing the risk around that?
Page 6 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Well, you know, when you say manage the risk around that, that's a tough one to answer. The
risk around -- were you talking about just a downgrade risk? I think that's manageable, but that will cause
problems and issues because some people need AAA collateral, some people can't own, so it will cause issues.
I don't like the downgrade issue. But a government default issue is far more severe than that. And that would cut
across intraday lines, revolvers, takedown of revolvers, money market funds, securities lending, something like $3
trillion or $4 trillion of treasuries and uses collateral around the world. It would change the pricing of securities;
some flyers, some owners will be forced to sell because they're not allowed to own default securities.
I don't know what the rating agency would do if the United States goes in real default. If it goes in real default can
they keep the United States at AA plus? I don't know. If they move it down to D, which is default, that would cause
a lot of other issues and people would be forced to sell. So there's huge cross currents in that and it's not the kind
of thing that I think people should play with.
And what surprises me about the conversation at all isn't -- you can talk about all the potential catastrophic
outcomes, but I -- no one can possibly say, in my opinion who is semi-rational, could possibly say that there's no
chance of a catastrophic outcome. And therefore why would you take that risk?
BETSY GRASECK: And then just lastly on Basel III. Can you give us a sense as to how you see the RWAs
trajecting? I mean should we be looking for this type of shrinkage rate Q on Q going forward or how do you think
through that?
JAMIE DIMON: You know, first of all it's so far out, so we're going to -- I think what we're saying now is that we
originally made a statement we were going to go to the 7% right away, we're at 7.5%. We don't need to be higher
than the 7.5%. And I'm not sure the regulators want people to move higher than that very quickly because they do
believe that would cause a lot of banks to dramatically reduce their balance sheets.
We're going to generate so much excess capital, but there's no need to be over 7.5%. So one of the things that
will drive excess capital is the runoff and what I call natural mitigation. There are certain things the balance sheet
will run off -- big uses of capital. Think credit hybrids, re-securitizations, mobile rated things.
And then there will be other decisions we make over time of businesses we may not want to be in because they
use up too much capital. And so it'll be a wide variety of things, but I think at the end of the day we'll still be
looking at very good returns for our shareholders in the capital we do deploy.
BETSY GRASECK: But I guess the other thing is as RWAs are coming down you're going to see that ratio drift up
obviously, all other things equal, and there's only so much you can buy back, at least at this stage. So you're
basically saying --.
JAMIE DIMON: That ratio is going to drive up so fast people are going to be surprised and not just for us, by the
way. I've mentioned this before. You're going to see a lot of banks in the US, and maybe some banks around the
world, start to generate huge amounts of excess capital.
Everyone is at a different time table, so maybe some banks may be a quarter or two behind us but it will happen
and then they won't know what to do with it. That's what's going to happen. We're going to have huge excess
capital in the banking system in about 12 months, way beyond what the banking system needs. And God knows
why we have to hold all that capital, but that's where we are.
BETSY GRASECK: I guess what I'm saying is, we shouldn't expect that you're going to be able to manage to your
7.5% ratio Q on Q on Q?
JAMIE DIMON: All I'm saying is we don't see any need to go over that. We may not be able to avoid going over
that, is that what you're saying?
BETSY GRASECK: Yes, okay, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: And then if we have that problem we'll figure out what we can do.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Jason Goldberg, Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. I guess within the Card business it looked
like NII came down quite a bit and I guess a lot of that's Kohl's, or part of it's Kohl's at least, and then fee income
Page 7 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

kind of went up quite a bit. Is there any kind of movement within that we should know about or kind of strategy
shifts?
JAMIE DIMON: What did Kohl's (inaudible)?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Kohl's, you're right, 3. -- you know, we had $3.7 billion of assets out, impacted NII, we had
high expense remember, that was more of a loan trade as opposed to a fundamental business trade, so we had
high expenses associated with that. And then fee income is up because we've got more transactors and that's a
function of sales volume.
JAMIE DIMON: Which is great, I mean the sales volume is up 10% or something, it's really -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's right.
JAMIE DIMON: -- extraordinarily good.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: If you exclude Kohl's sales volume was up 13%.
JASON GOLDBERG: Got it. And then I guess a commentary on agency put back I guess seemed positive. I
guess one of your competitors a week or two ago I guess took the other taxing, they were seeing a change in
agency behavior and actually seeing more put backs from Fannie Mae. Just have you seen any I guess net
adverse changes in kind of what they're doing?
JAMIE DIMON: No. We've estimated agency put backs and obviously it's changing the timing issues, but we do
our best estimate. If we see a different thing we'll let you know. We've been a little conservative on that, hopefully.
JASON GOLDBERG: Got it. And then just lastly, I mean you talked about recouping a portion of the Durbin
amendment and I know it's something you talked about in the past. Any terms of being able to quantify that or
kind of where you are in terms of kind of putting strategies in place?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so, it's $1 billion and it's very careful. We're not going to do anything that's not consumer
friendly. So a lot of that quote recruitment will be -- and some of this already has a little bit of rewards programs
and we're going to test various things and we already have -- you already have some checking accounts that
have modest fees in it. So we're going to come up with something that will help mitigate that a little bit.
JASON GOLDBERG: Got it, thank you.
OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BOFA-MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. A question on the home lending net
charge-off guidance. You're under $1 billion now for the quarter for the first time in a long time; I'm conscious of
the seasonality comment that you made. But with the guidance still at $1.2 billion, is it realistic to think that it could
pop that much based on your models? I mean, how much would we need to see unemployment rise or home
price depreciation accelerate in order to get back to that $1.2 billion kind of number?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so, the reason -- you're right, it should run lower than $1.2 billion. But embedded in our
thinking as the home prices go down a little bit, there's a lot of uncertainty, we still have the DOJ and the AGs.
There are going to be changes in how we have to modify loans and service loans. We have foreclosure delays
and all that kind of stuff, so we're just trying to be conservative here. It's not likely to be higher than $1.2 billion
next quarter.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Fair enough. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Just following up on a couple of the last point you
made. I mean, as it relates to the mortgage, Doug, I think you had said that actually the reserves that you've
taken for that, including the $1 billion this quarter, include your expectation of the costs of an AG settlement.
Would that -- I mean is that correct?
JAMIE DIMON: Doug.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
Page 8 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: So, if there were a settlement announced that was consistent with what you're expecting,
the P&L impact would be small or nothing going forward?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, it's just an estimate, so it will be plus or minus something. But, yes.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right, sure. Okay. And just to also kind of follow-up on the Durbin question. I mean, you
mentioned kind of things that could be consumer friendly. Have you kind of looked at or tested any kind of
changes in products that might kind of be able to get better interchange rates than a debit product like switching
people to charge cards? Is that something that you've kind of looked at? I mean how should we think about --?
JAMIE DIMON: We're going to look at every possibility. And there are a lot of restrictions what we can do
because they blocked off like a charge card where automatic deductions at the end of the year.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: But we're going to look at every possibility and hopefully offer our customers great products and
great services, better than our -- than some of the non-bank competitors and get paid for it.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, okay. And I guess maybe just kind of following up on the capital question. Last
quarter you kind of felt like -- you kept talking about the stock buyback as being relative to where the price of the
stock is. I mean, would it be fair to say that given everything that you see now that in the third quarter you'd still be
deploying capital in that direction?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but we're not going to tell you what we do day in and day out, but we bought $3.5 billion
around these prices and we -- we've said we're going to have capital generation. So, permission to buy more.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thanks.
OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.
PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR: Thank you very much. On the foreclosure expenses that you've taken now I
think either with the MSR evaluation and this one's a straight up $1.3 billion, do you think you got that ring
fenced? Do you think you need to continue to take some of these expenses? Or do you think you've taken most
of them at this point?
JAMIE DIMON: So, GSE, I think we're done. The foreclosure delays and settlements, etc., we have an estimate.
My guess is it could a little bit higher, but it's not -- hopefully not a huge number. MSR, more could be done, it
could be a little bit but it shouldn't be a lot more. And the private-label stuff will probably go up a little bit, but I
doubt it will go up more than the reserves we're going to have to take down in the next 12 months.
PAUL MILLER: Okay. And the other (multiple speakers), go ahead.
JAMIE DIMON: Because it's possible we're very over reserved in mortgage land too. So, but that's litigation. It's
going to take -- we think it's going to go to litigation, but we don't know how you can do it the other way. So that's
why we have it under litigation and we're not going to disclose exactly the numbers for that.
PAUL MILLER: Okay. And the other question is on -- going back to the NIM question again. With rates staying
here, and I think you said a little bit earlier in the call that you expect modest declines in NIM, at what point do you
just let the balance sheet start to roll down? I mean what does that sacrifice? Because if you grow your balance
sheet it seems like you're going to have more NIM pressure. Do you just let it roll off with rates at these levels?
JAMIE DIMON: We don't look at it in NIM, okay. NIM is just -- like we have profits and we have clients. So the
clients have deposits, you don't really want to turn them away if they're good clients. So even if you have to invest
at a very small spread you probably would do that, right?
PAUL MILLER: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: Building your business. And obviously we are constantly managing our interest rate exposure and
rates going up will help us, whether -- we could change that tomorrow and increase our NIM, but then you're
taking far more exposure against rising rates.
PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.
Page 9 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi. For the investment banking revenues quarter over quarter Asia was the
lowest in a while and Europe didn't go down as much as the overall segment. Can you describe what's happening
there?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, Mike. You know Asia, just lower volumes. It's a heavily equity-related business in
Asia both in Investment Bank and markets and lower volumes second quarter. Europe, we had good performance
this quarter in our markets businesses and the Investment Bank.
MIKE MAYO: And the markets businesses, why did it get better? Are you benefiting from the volatility? Is there
more activity? What's happening there?
JAMIE DIMON: It's just -- you know, everything was down a little bit from last quarter, but all the businesses pretty
much continue to have pretty good flow -- you know, client flow businesses. And --.
MIKE MAYO: I guess I'll just ask my question straight out, I mean, is there a chance for another scenario like you
had in the United States in 2008/2009 in Europe over the next couple years given what they're going through?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike, your guess is as good as ours on that. Of course it's possible that some of these things
start to get worse and cause severe problems. And so we're very conscious of that. And how it flows back to the
United States, it's hard to tell.
MIKE MAYO: Let me shift gears. Syndicated lending, how much did that contribute to the growth in wholesale
loans and what were your syndicated lending fees this quarter? And what's your view on the market overall? It
seems like it's really growing quickly.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, no, it's a good business, but it's only -- it's less than 20% of the $1.9 billion of total
investment banking fees. And the balance sheet -- remember, only some of that stays on the balance sheet. We
sell all loans, we syndicate loans, we have distressed stuff that goes off the balance sheet.
So the build-up -- most of the build-up I think Doug already mentioned was global core banking and the conduit
business which we still think is a good business. But the syndicate business, the investment bank balance sheet,
loan balance sheet stuff bounces all over the place because corporations always have the ability generally to go
to the markets. So they're always deciding between bonds and loans. And even of the loans, some of that -- a lot
of that stuff gets syndicated.
MIKE MAYO: All right, let me shift gears to credit cards. You improved the loss rates by 100 basis points, now
you expect another 75 basis points lower. You're typically pretty conservative in your guidance, what gives you
such confidence that those losses are going to go down so much?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, Mike, we have tremendous visibility of next quarter already just by looking at delinquencies
and roll rates. So you have very good visibility one quarter out and some visibility two quarters out.
MIKE MAYO: So what's your new estimate?
JAMIE DIMON: We won't go up -- we won't be that -- we won't go up in the next quarter, put it that way.
MIKE MAYO: What's your new estimate for mid-2012?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, we're not going to give you one. But it's -- if things continue the way they are it will be pretty
good.
MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, what was the average price where you buy back stock last quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: Do you know the number?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes. A little under 44.
MIKE MAYO: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: David Hilder, Susquehanna.
DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: Good morning, thanks. Two timing questions and then one about
the reserves. Would you expect to have changes in debit card or consumer pricing ready by October 1 to begin
mitigating immediately?
Page 10 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: No. So you'll see the full effect of Durbin will be fully felt in the fourth quarter; it will be about $250
million and it will be barely mitigated in the fourth quarter.
DAVID HILDER: Okay. And any thoughts on timing of the resolution of the state attorneys general investigation
on foreclosures? There had been some speculation that it might be resolved by now.
JAMIE DIMON: I would do anything to get it done today. But our counsel advises us that it could take a quite a
while. There are a lot of parties engaged in this. And I gather people have gotten much closer on it, but if we get
that call we'll be on an airplane, we'll be down there and we'll be signing up.
One of the reasons to do that is it's good for the United States of America to get behind us all this stuff to fix it and
move on. Delaying foreclosures and all the uncertainty around mortgages is not a good thing for the economy, I
think you understand that. So we stand ready to do it as soon as we can.
DAVID HILDER: And -- thank you very much. And (multiple speakers).
JAMIE DIMON: It's got to be done right. We're not going to do it and be subject to double and triple jeopardy.
We'd rather litigate it.
DAVID HILDER: And for the Corporation as a whole, was the total litigation reserve expense in the quarter $1.3
billion or that's in corporate or were there additional litigation reserves elsewhere in the segments?
JAMIE DIMON: There are always other pluses and minuses, and you'll see some of that when the 10-K comes
out because we have to disclose that now -- the 10-Q I mean.
DAVID HILDER: Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.
MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Good morning.
MATT O'CONNOR: I guess first following up on the net interest margin and net interest income dollars, obviously
the NIM percent was down a fair amount this quarter, but the net interest income dollars was down a little less
than $100 million. And where the balance sheet is starting to grow from here do we see continued stabilization
and then some growth in the back half of the year in the dollars?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: You're going to have declined pressure from the portfolio runoffs a little less for card over
time but continue in RFS. And loan balances are going to drive the aggregate dollars and we'll see where demand
is.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, as we think about the macro environment and a lot of us
have been waiting for higher rates and more activity overall and hopefully it's going to come, but it's hard to have
too much confidence in that any time soon. Is there kind of a plan B in maybe it's the investment spend in Card,
Retail, Asset Management, the deposit pricing? Just what are some of the contingency plans that you have if
we're stuck with low rates for a few more years and we're just kind of hobbling along -- along with 2%-2.5%
growth?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm not sure what you mean by plan B. You know, we're not going to stop growing our business
and hiring bankers and opening branches and growing checking accounts and trying to do more trading business
and making Middle Market loans because you have a peculiar interest rate curve. And if it squeezes margins a
little bit in some places so be it. (multiple speakers) we could change that in two minutes. So if you wanted to
increase NIM we could just increase interest-rate exposure and increase NIM.
MATT O'CONNOR: I guess the concern I hear from some investors is that banks in general continue to hold out
hope for higher rates and that the deposits will be worth more and keep a bigger expense infrastructure than
what's needed for the current environment hoping for rates to rise, revenues to come back. And is this possible
looking out two years from now that things aren't that much different than what we have right now?
JAMIE DIMON: If they're not that different we'll still be fine, you know, we'll figure out ways to price products and
services and make it a margin and we'll be fine.

Page 11 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just lastly if I may, as we think about your Private Equity business, it's
continuing to churn out very good returns. I think there could be some limits on what you can do in this segment
with regulation going forward. Are there any thoughts or opportunities to unlock some of that value or how it might
play out in terms of being sold or spun out?
JAMIE DIMON: You're making a good point. We have -- we are blessed to have One Equity Partners which is we
just think an exceptional group of people. And obviously, we always say about Private Equity, those gains
themselves are going to be lumpy, they're not going to -- but we're like Warren Buffett in that this one, we prefer
20% lumpy -- average but lumpy returns than 12%.
And so over time this number will go up or down, but it's real earnings for the Company, it's just you can't look into
your model every quarter, but it's doing this for the Company and we expect to get those 20% returns over time.
MATT O'CONNOR: And I guess my question was about the business as a whole. Will this still be under the
JPMorgan umbrella or over time will it be sold or spun out?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, yes.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Jeff Harte, Sandler O'Neill.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning. A couple questions left. One, as we look at you
building a lot of excess capital and as we look at there potentially being a lot of distressed sellers out there, how
are you thinking about the potential for acquisitions to cross a regulatory capital threshold and maybe push your
capital requirements up even higher than the 9.5% kind of Basel number people are talking about now?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, we don't know the final rules on that yet. Remember, that stuff won't be in effect for eight
years, so give us a little time on that one. But we would certainly use our capital if we thought there were things
that we could do that were great for shareholders whether it's buying a company or buying assets. So if you have
any brilliant ideas, give us a call.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. And secondly, when we talk about the five European nation exposures and the gross versus
the net, how can we get some comfort from the outside about the effectiveness of hedges? Because I keep
having flashbacks to the crisis where things like monolines were viewed as effective hedges and we found out
they weren't.
JAMIE DIMON: Right, but we didn't have a lot of that either, did we? So I've already said it was non-sovereign
collateral, so some of these things have collateral that's usually pretty good, we're very careful we take as careful.
Some of the hedges are not perfect; there are some country CDS hedges that are offsetting company type of
exposures and we have specific name exposures that are sometimes directly offset.
And some of it's in the training book or derivative exposure would change over time. But we -- that's why we can
understand the $15 billion and we're pretty conservative on it and obviously you can make money be worse off or
better off than you think, but it's not going to move by $15 billion. It's going -- you're talking about being plus or
minus a $1 billion here or there.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.
JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Good morning. One question on fixed income trading.
That held up I think a lot better than people were expecting. We saw a year-over-year improvement for the first
time in five quarters, I guess a better comparison versus a year ago.
But also is that a sign that we're starting to see spread compression ease in fixed income as things normalize
here or is that unique to you guys just showing some good market share? How should we think about your results
there -- was it just lumpy or do you think that's indicative of the market industry sort of stabilizing?
JAMIE DIMON: I think I can categorize it as that spreads have normalized, they came back to normal for a while.
Obviously it changes in every business a little bit. And that flows have been good, have been good fairly much
across all the products. Some months were lower than others and -- but it's really those two things.

Page 12 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay. Fair enough. And on the deposit side you had a big improvement, I think $50 billion or so
sequentially on average deposits, most of that seemed to be in TSS. Is that a reflection of a flight to safety given
the macro concerns out there? And if so, does that continue into July?
JAMIE DIMON: I think a little bit was a flight to safety and a little bit was just people managing their own balance
sheets. And there's a lot of liquidity around the world and some of it went away early in the quarter but not all of it.
JIM MITCHELL: Okay, all right, thanks enough.
OPERATOR: Meredith Whitney, Meredith Whitney.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY: Hi, I have three questions, please. The
first is the -- probably the broadest one which is, you're stuck with higher capital, you may not like it, but you're
stuck with it. One thing, you can cut expenses or you can re-price? So, can you talk about across the businesses,
and maybe particularly in investment banking, what you're doing in terms of repricing and how you manage that
with competition?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I don't think in the wholesale businesses you're seeing repricing yet because I don't think a
lot of these things are actually effective yet. I think you've seen some repricing in consumer business and more
relating to all the other legislation, you know, the card, the overdraft and stuff like that. So -- but I don't think
you've seen it exactly yet in wholesale businesses.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: But you need to? And I know just anecdotally you're repricing some of your products.
Where -- are we not even in stage one yet, is that what you're saying?
JAMIE DIMON: We're not even at stage one of repricing.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: There are a lot of other changes coming too, your, margin requirements and how these things get
applied globally, the liquidity requirements which I think will cause some repricing, so -- but very little yet.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. But even from a cost structure basis, to offset that there's got to be repricing.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I think you're going to see repricing in certain types of deposits and certain types of loans,
certain types of revolvers, shorter duration revolvers -- I think you're going to see those things, you haven't really
seen them yet.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, okay. The second question is on if you could -- I know this is a stretch, but if you
could provide some type of outlook on the impending announcement I guess that's coming over the next two
weeks vis-a-vis Fannie, Freddie and new housing initiatives. How that -- what the scenarios could be?
Either if it's Fannie, Freddie backstopping or guaranteeing mortgages or potential cram down, what the best policy
in your opinion would be and then what various -- limited various policies, how that would affect you? And then I
have one last question.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so I guess again, the one that's going to happen is reducing the maximum size that they'll
guarantee from like $750,000 to $630,000, whatever it is. We don't think that's going to have a substantial impact.
I think it was 1% of the volume is done in between those levels. So the impact of that will be jumbos will go up a
little bit and where you sell the agencies will go down a little bit.
Most of the changes they're talking about are not in the near term, they're just talking about them to be effective
years from now. And so there's plenty of time to figure out how to do that. At the end of the day we'll be in the
mortgage business and I think it will return to being a good business. It will be much more conservative, much
more carefully done, there will be much different servicing standards and -- but I don't think the announcement is
going to change that much.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, thank you. On the investment banking side, your DCM results are so much better
than what we've heard from the rest of the Street. And so what we hear from the rest of the Street is that there's a
risk off trade during the quarter, volumes were low, people got a lot of -- obviously this wouldn't be flow, but
people got risk-averse because they got a lot of the moves what not wrong early in the quarter. And your results
were so strong. Is that suggestive of the fact that your clients are more risk aggressive? Or can you put that into
context with the rest of the industry?
Page 13 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: When you say DCM -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: -- are you talking about primary issuance or are you talking about trading, secondary?
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Primary issuance.
JAMIE DIMON: Oh, so we kept (multiple speakers).
MEREDITH WHITNEY: And trading.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We kept the number one share and --.
JAMIE DIMON: And we were more the bigger -- more of the lead manager of the number one share.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's right. So -- kept the number one share -- market share actually for us grew a little bit
in the second quarter as a percentage matter.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. And that's --.
JAMIE DIMON: Part of the DCM numbers also are syndicated loan which we were obviously pretty strong in too.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, so maybe that makes up the difference?
JAMIE DIMON: Yeah
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Could be?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Well, congratulations either way.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Thanks.
OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. Two quick questions. Just in terms of the home lending
portfolio, we saw that drop about $30 billion year over year and that's in line with the outlook that you've given.
Any update on the pace that we can expect that portfolio to continue to shrink over the next year or two? That
would be the first question.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: 10%-15% a year.
JAMIE DIMON: Forever.
ED NAJARIAN: Forever. No, I guess maybe that's what I'm looking for. Any idea when you think that might start
to stabilize? Obviously not in the near term, but down the road?
JAMIE DIMON: It's going to go down 10% or 15% a year until it's close to zero, that's what it's going to do.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: You know -- listen, the world isn't doing Subprime any more, the world isn't doing -- well, so Home
Equity will come down to a number then stabilize, but it's a lot lower than it is today. And jumbo is a decision that
you make whether to put on balance sheet or not and I think that class of asset will be most affected by some of
these G-SIFI things. So we'll see on that one.
ED NAJARIAN: So --?
JAMIE DIMON: We can buy or sell portfolio things anytime we want.
ED NAJARIAN: All right, so you expect that to continue to come down pretty much at that pace at least over the
next several years?
Page 14 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then second question would be is there anything that would stop you as you continue
to deploy excess capital? I know it looks like you have about $4.5 billion left on your current repurchase
authorization, you may want to increase your dividend. Is there anything that would stop you from going back to
the Fed before the end of the year to get more approvals to deploy even more capital than you have approved
right now?
JAMIE DIMON: Well remember, the Board is the primary driver of capital decisions and so, no, the Board -- if we
think it's appropriate to go to talk to the regulators again about capital, we would.
ED NAJARIAN: Right, prior to the next round of capital stress tests?
JAMIE DIMON: Right. But I think it's important to point out the Board is responsible for this Company, not just the
regulators.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay, all right, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: It's still America. Capitalism is still alive. If the regulators start making all capital decisions then
they should be the Board.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks, yes.
OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC Capital Markets.
GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you, good morning. Can you guys share
some color on the asset yields? In your loan portfolio we've been hearing anecdotal evidence that competition is
very, very aggressive. Did you guys see that this quarter as the yields came done sequentially to 5.36% from
5.62%?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So that, Gerard, was really a mix-related issue. Spreads on loans, if you look at our
Commercial Bank Middle Market, stayed very healthy this quarter.
GERARD CASSIDY: Good. The other question I have is regarding Jamie's comment about what could happen if
the US is downgraded to a AA plus. Would that actually help your business? Would you guys see an increase in
business as people start shifting their portfolios?
JAMIE DIMON: It's possible, but we're not wishing for it.
GERARD CASSIDY: Oh, sure, no, no, I understand that.
JAMIE DIMON: It's a bad way to win. We want to see the United States be happy and growing and jobs -- that's
what we want to see. And if that's -GERARD CASSIDY: Certainly.
JAMIE DIMON: If for some reason that's not great for JPMorgan's share, so be it.
GERARD CASSIDY: And then finally, on the comment you guys made about the payoffs or repayments on the
credit card portfolio, you expect them to remain pretty high. The guys on the front line, are they telling you why
you're still seeing such high repayments on the credit card portfolios? What's driving the consumers' behavior?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, I guess part of our repayment has just been a mix to much higher quality clients, more
transactor clients. So some of that was expected. It's going to stabilize soon and so, no, the rate may not actually
change at one point. We'll eventually have growth in the portfolio anyway.
GERARD CASSIDY: Great, thank you.
OPERATOR: Ron Mandle, GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. Yes, Jamie, I was wondering if you could elaborate on your comment
you made early on about the fact that the GSIFIs will have higher capital ratios might force the companies that
would be in lower buckets to actually have higher capital as well? I wasn't sure I really understood that point.

Page 15 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so I'm saying, and I do this by business, okay. If you are a company right below the G-SIFI,
and some of these G-SIFI's or SIFI's have a lot more capital, you may start losing business because of that
because it might be easier for Boards and investors and people to say, you know what, leave those deposits with
the G-SIFI, put it over here. So I'm saying it may become a small competitive disadvantage for the non-SIFI.
And so I could see that you're going to -- I could see you might hear from some of the smaller banks that they're
going to be forced to hold the higher capital numbers for competitive reasons. I don't know about that, but I'm just
-- look, I think it would be a lot -- I think when you do something like this, like a G-SIFI where they're going to give
all these reasons why you have to do it, I think it's going to cause a lot of distortions which are hard to figure out
today.
I think we'll win some business because of it. I think there are things not on the balance sheet because of it. I
think you're going to see some small banks complain about it, not realizing that it's going to hurt them
competitively. So I think -- I just think you'll see a lot of toing and froeing and because of this issue.
RON MANDLE: Yes, I guess I could see it more in the commercial businesses -- or not even commercial, in the
big wholesale businesses than I could see in the more -- down in the branches' consumer businesses.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I think you're probably right. It would be more in the global wholesale businesses than
maybe the consumer side.
RON MANDLE: Yes. And then my other question regarding litigation, one attorney general who operates nearby
seems to be going off on his own beyond the 50 -- or in addition to the 50 states. How are you thinking about
what Schneiderman is up to and are you reserving for what he may be thinking about and the subpoenas that
he's been sending out and so on?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, I'm not talking about any one particular person, but there are 50 state Attorney Generals.
And so it's a complex issue which I think is why it's taking so long to resolve some of this stuff. Like I said, I think
it's in everyone's interest to resolve it.
RON MANDLE: Yes. And then just one last litigation question. The FHA was taking a look at some things that
accompanied Deutsche Bank had bought regarding the quality of the loans. Are you -- might you be involved in
that investigation at some point?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know the answer to that. I think we've been very careful in our FHA underwriting. But I
can't tell you what other actors are going to do or there have been so many flaws in mortgages that it's just -- it's
been an unmitigated disaster. We really need to clean it up for the sake of everybody. And everybody is going to
sue everybody else and it's going to go on for a long time.
RON MANDLE: Right. Okay, thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning, thanks very much. Just a question
in terms of the branch growth trends now that Todd has taken over the responsibility for that part of the business.
Is there any thought of changing your growth estimation for the number of branches over the next couple of years
that you laid out the Analyst Day earlier this year?
JAMIE DIMON: Not necessarily. There's been no change of strategy because there's been a change in
management. But I would always ask Todd. You can rethink it -- if you think we should do something different,
different places, different types of branches, different locations, different pace you should tell us and we don't
mind changing our plans.
But there don't change right now. Remember, a lot of that is building out where we are. It can make a lot of sense
even though it may not be a macro thing, but you still might want to build out cities where you don't have enough
branches.
MATT BURNELL: And then one question from a footnote in the slide deck, in terms of the WaMu private-label
exposure. You noted that you and the FDIC have differing views on how that needs to be approached. Is that
something for which you can focus on in terms of litigation risk or is that another type of risk that's not really
included in what you would view as litigation risk?

Page 16 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: No, we think they're responsible for the private-label issues that came out of WaMu. We bought
the assets and certain liabilities and we don't think that was one of the liabilities we bought. I'm sure that will be in
litigation too.
MATT BURNELL: Okay. And then, Doug, just one quick final question. What were the numbers for CVA DVA this
quarter in the trading business?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: The trading business is about 140 positive DVA.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, the CVA was --.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: CVA is (multiple speakers).
JAMIE DIMON: A wash -- it was a wash.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, that's a wash with some other. So --.
MATT BURNELL: Okay. Thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: I have to admit, I'm one of those nerds that looks at the Fed's
H8 data every Friday afternoon and on the total loading volumes. And just systemically they look like they're
turning around. For most of the last 18 months they were shrinking and now we've got them flattening out and
they look like they're going to grow.
And I'm just curious, just philosophically if, for example, systemic -- system-wide loans grow 5% in the year
ahead, just to pick a number, should we expect JPMorgan's loan volumes and then attendant net interest
revenues also to grow kind of in proportion to that 5%? Or do you think that you have larger runoff portfolios than
average and that that would keep you down -- your trends below the industry?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know. We break it out part by business. So we expect the core bank will grow with the core
bank will grow probably with the trends and we think Middle Market will grow faster than middle market trends.
Small business was up what, 28% or some huge number. We think that will grow faster than middle market
trends. Credit Card we think will grow faster -- we have a little bit of runoff left but it will grow faster. And then the
obviously offset mortgages. There's a huge mortgage runoff, that's going to continue forever.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay and then just as a follow-up. The home equity lines, according to the Fed H8 data are
going down about 5% a year. You said 10% to 15%. I mean are you really making a strategic bet that this product
is dead in the rest of the world?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, I think the home equity product unfortunately is a good product that just was -- became part
of the bubble at the end, okay. But the product itself is a good product. And how much did we originate last
quarter? We're originating $1 billion or $2 billion a quarter --.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I don't know that number.
JAMIE DIMON: So we're going to stay in that business. It's just going to be -- that runoff -- it will run off but we're
originating what we originated last year. So originations are very different than total balances in this one.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: They'll never go back to where they were.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Right. That's it for me, thank you.
OPERATOR: Bill Tanona, UBS.
BILL TANONA, ANALYST, UBS: Hey, good morning. Just two quick ones here. In terms of IB backlog, can you
give us any color? And also, did you see any dramatic changes as the quarter progressed given all the macro
uncertainties out there?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So, backlog is solid, but it's dependent on market conditions for execution on that backlog.
Actually --.
Page 17 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: During the quarter you had a lot of ins and outs.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: So slow weeks, fast weeks. You know, it was -- but that's -- it's probably more of that than normal
this quarter. But --.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And just remember, third quarter tends to be seasonally low.
BILL TANONA: Yes, that's fair. And then secondly, in RFS, obviously there's a lot going on there and we've seen
expenses increase dramatically here in the last year. But when you think about the Retail Banking segment, really
expenses haven't necessarily grown. So just trying to get a sense as to where we should expect the Retail
Financial Services expenses to kind of peak out here given that you guys are actually going to start embarking on
a major rollout of new branches?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the way to just look at it is that the retail branch -- it's not a major runoff, we've been doing
120 branches forever. And we're just talking about increasing it to 150, 175, maybe 200. But, so I think you'll see
the retail branch expansions grow over time, but not dramatically, just grow over time.
The one that you're going to see dramatic changes in expenses eventually will be mortgage. Because we are still
bearing high costs related to the high level of defaults, foreclosure expenses, OREO expenses and things like
that.
And I read all the time that we make more money on defaulted loans or foreclosed loans than we do servicing
normal loans; I find that mystifying. I mean, it costs us a fortune to deal with these kinds of things. And so
eventually those expenses will come down. And some of those run through the mortgage MSR and some don't.
OPERATOR: Mike Holton, The Boston Company.
MIKE HOLTON, ANALYST, THE BOSTON COMPANY: Hey, good morning. Doug, you talked about charge-offs
and normalized credit costs across a couple different segments. And just thinking for the back half of the year,
overall corporate provision costs, would you expect those to be kind of flattish, up a little bit, down a little bit,
what's your best guess at this point?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: You know, overall provision flattish --.
JAMIE DIMON: For the whole Company or just corporate?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, for wholesale.
MIKE HOLTON: No, no, for the entire Company.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Oh, the whole Company? You know, they're -- wholesale flattish, we've given you what we
think the trend is for card and we've also given you expectations relative to the mortgage business.
MIKE HOLTON: Okay, fair enough. Thanks.
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Guy Moszkowski, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Hey, I just had a follow-up on the private-label securities reserve. I think I heard you say,
and I may have misheard you, but I think I heard you say that you thought that you were at this point fully
reserved for what you think the cost there could be over time. Should we assume that that's based on your belief
that you're not responsible for the WaMu stuff that was originated before and what you believe is the FDIC's
responsibility?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, so if in fact the ruling turned out not in your favor on that there would be some
additional reserve that would have to be built presumably?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: WaMu was about a third of our total stuff there.
Page 18 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: A third of issuance, Guy.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: A third of the total issuance was what WaMu did prior to failing?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Right, right.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Right.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: (inaudible) balances.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. Thank you very much.
OPERATOR: And you have no further questions at this time.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay, folks, well thank you very much for spending time with us and we'll talk to you soon.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call, you may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020110728e77e001xh

Page 19 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

