Q2 2019 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
9,861 words
16 July 2019
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
© 2019 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Second Quarter 2019
Earnings Call. This call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions)
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon; and Chief
Financial Officer, Jennifer Piepszak.
Ms. Piepszak, please go ahead.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone.
Before I get started, I'd like to thank Marianne for nearly 7 years as CFO and for her support of me over many
years, but particularly her support during my transition into this role. So a huge thanks to Marianne.
JAMES DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yes. And I just want to add my thanks, too. I
think Marianne, as you all know, did a great job, smart, honest, thoughtful, helped make the company a better
company. So all the thanks goes to Marianne, and we also all know that Jenny will do a great job, too.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Thank you, James. Okay. So now onto the presentation, which, as always, is available
on our website and we ask that you please refer to the disclaimer at the back of the presentation.
Starting on Page 1, the firm reported record net income of $9.7 billion and EPS of $2.82 on revenue of $29.6
billion with a return on tangible common equity of 20%. Included in these results are tax benefits of $768 million
related to the resolution of a number of tax audits. Adjusting for this as well as a few other notable items that
largely offset, we delivered an 18% ROTCE this quarter.
Underlying performance for the quarter was strong with highlights including client investment assets in Consumer
Banking up 16%, largely driven by net new money flows; in Card, 11% growth in sales and 8% growth in
outstanding; #1 in Global IB fees year-to-date, gaining share across all products and regions; steady results in the
Commercial Bank with net income of $1 billion, while continuing to invest in the business; and in Asset & Wealth
Management, record long-term inflows, AUM and client assets.
Overall for the firm, total loan growth was 2% year-on-year, but down 1% sequentially. Important to note here that
these variances include the impact of loan sales in Home Lending as we continue to optimize our usage of capital
and liquidity across the firm. Credit performance remained strong across businesses and we delivered another
quarter of positive operating leverage.
Now on to Page 2 and some more detail about our second quarter results. Revenue of $29.6 billion was up $1.2
billion or 4% year-on-year as net interest income was up approximately $900 million or 7% on balance sheet
growth and mix as well as higher rates. And noninterest revenue was up approximately $300 million year-on-year,
largely driven by the absence of the card rewards liability adjustment we took in the prior year.
Excluding that variance and the other offsetting notable items I mentioned, noninterest revenue was about flat,
with strong performance in Consumer across Auto lease, Home Lending production and Consumer & Business
Banking, offset by lower Markets revenue and IB fees as previously guided.
Page 1 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Expenses of $16.3 billion were up 2% related to continued investments in our businesses, partially offset by a
reduction in FDIC charges of approximately $250 million. Credit remains favorable with credit costs of $1.1 billion,
down 5% year-on-year. In Consumer, credit costs of $1.1 billion were flat, but higher net charge-offs were offset
by net reserve releases. And in Wholesale, credit performance remains favorable with a net charge-off rate of 8
basis points, which was fully reserved for in prior quarters. Once again, we do not see any signs of broad-based
deterioration across our portfolios, both Consumer and Wholesale.
Now on to balance sheet and capital on Page 3. We ended the second quarter with a CET1 ratio of 12.2%, up
more than 10 basis points versus last quarter. In the quarter, the firm distributed $7.5 billion of capital to
shareholders, and as you know, the Fed did not adjust to our 2019 CCAR capital plan. We are pleased to have
significant flexibility with gross repurchase capacity of up to $29.4 billion over the next 4 quarters and the Board
announced its intention to increase the common dividend to $0.90 per share, effective in the third quarter.
Now on to Page 4 and Consumer & Community Banking. CCB generated net income of $4.2 billion and an ROE
of 31%. Loans were down slightly year-on-year driven by Home Lending down 7% reflecting the loan sale I just
mentioned. However, Card loan growth was healthy, up 8%. Business Banking loans were up 2% and Auto loans
and leases were flat.
We saw strong deposit and investment growth year-on-year, with deposits up 3% and client investment assets up
16%, growing across both cyclical and digital channels. Card sales were up 11% as growth remained strong
across key products. And across the franchise, active mobile users were up 12% year-on-year given continued
engagement in our new features. For example, customers have opened over 2 million checking and savings
accounts digitally, activated over 60 million Chase offers and our enrollment in Credit Journey now exceeds 18
million.
Revenue of $13.8 billion was up 11%. This increase included 2 notable items that largely offset. First, the current
quarter includes a negative MSR adjustment in Home Lending, driven by updates to our model inputs and in the
prior year, as I mentioned, we had a rewards liability adjustment in Cards of approximately $330 million.
Consumer & Business Banking was up 11% on higher deposit NII driven by margin expansion.
Home Lending was down 17%, although excluding the MSR adjustment I just mentioned, revenues would have
been up 4% driven by higher net production revenue on better margins and higher volumes, largely offset by
lower NII on spread compression and lower balances.
In Cards, Merchant Services & Auto was up 18%. Excluding the previously noted rewards liability adjustment,
revenue was up 11%, driven by higher card NII on loan growth and margin expansion and the impact of higher
Auto lease volumes.
Expenses of $7.2 billion were up 4%, driven by continued investments in the business and higher Auto lease
depreciation, largely offset by efficiencies and lower FDIC charges. Of note, the overhead ratio was 52% and we
delivered significant positive operating leverage.
On Credit, this quarter included a reserve release in the Home Lending purchase credit-impaired portfolio of $400
million, reflecting improvements in delinquencies and home prices, which was partially offset by a reserve build in
Cards of $200 million. This is primarily driven by growth and to a lesser extent, mix as the newer vintages
naturally season and become a larger part of the portfolio.
Net charge-offs were up $212 million. Excluding the recovery on a loan sale in Home Lending in the prior year,
net charge-offs were up $80 million driven by Card as we continue to grow the portfolio.
Now turning to the Corporate & Investment Bank on Page 5. CIB reported net income of $2.9 billion and an ROE
of 14% on revenue of $9.6 billion. As a reminder, our performance was particularly strong last year, which
featured record or near-record revenues in overall IB fees and Equity Markets. With that in mind, for the quarter
IB revenue of $1.8 billion was down 9% year-on-year in a market that was also down.
Advisory, debt underwritings and equity underwriting fees were down 16%, 13% and 11%, respectively, reflecting
lower levels of deal activity as well as a 10-year record share in equity underwriting in the prior year. It's worth
noting on a year-to-date basis, we continue to rank #1 overall and have gained share across all products and
regions, benefiting from our continued investment in bankers.
In advisory, we grew share in announced deal volumes and announced more deals than any other bank. In debt
underwriting, we also ranked #1, benefiting from our strong lead-left position in leveraged finance, and in equity
Page 2 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

underwriting, we have seen significant pickup in activity since the first quarter and we continue to benefit from our
leadership positions in tech and health care where there has been some robust activity.
Looking forward, the overall IB pipeline is healthy, though lower compared to the elevated activity we saw last
year and with fewer acquisition financing and refinancing opportunities in debt underwriting. Dialogue with clients
remains active and we expect strong deal flow to continue.
Moving to Markets. Total revenue was $5.4 billion, which was flat year-on-year. Our results include a notable gain
in fixed income from the IPO of Tradeweb. Excluding this gain, Markets' revenue would have been down 6%
year-on-year against a strong second quarter performance last year.
Fixed Income Markets was down 3% on an adjusted basis, with relative weakness in EMEA, partially offset by
increased client activity in North America rates and agency mortgage trading due to the changing rate
environment.
Equity Markets was down 12% against a record second quarter last year. Subdued client activity and a tough
compare contributed to a year-on-year decline in equity derivatives. That said, cash and prime remained stable
with client balances in prime reaching an all-time high.
Treasury Services and Securities Services revenues were $1.1 billion and $1 billion, down 4% and 5%
year-on-year, respectively, with organic growth being more than offset by deposit margin compression. As a
reminder, similar to last quarter, deposit margin was primarily impacted by funding basis compression rather than
client betas, and at the firm-wide level, there is an offset. Sequentially, Treasury Services was flat and Securities
Services was up 3% on higher balances and fees.
Finally, expenses of $5.5 billion were up 2% compared to the prior year with higher legal expenses partially offset
by lower performance-based compensation expense. And the comp-to-revenue ratio for the quarter was 28%.
Now moving on to Commercial Banking on Page 6. Commercial Banking reported net income of $1 billion and an
ROE of 17%. Revenue of $2.2 billion was down 5% year-on-year, predominantly driven by lower investment
banking activity due to our outperformance last year and lower NII on slightly lower deposit balances. Also worth
noting here, Gross IB revenue of $1.4 billion was up 8% year-to-date on strong syndicated lending and M&A
advisory activity and we continue to (inaudible) toward our long-term $3 billion target.
Deposit balances were down 1% year-on-year, and importantly, up 1% sequentially as balances have largely
stabilized in total, although we continue to see migration from noninterest to interest-bearing deposits. Expenses
of $864 million were up 2% year-on-year, driven by ongoing investments in banker coverage and technology.
Loans were up 1% and C&I loans being flat were up 3% adjusted for the continued runoff in our tax-exempt
portfolio. The story here remains unchanged. We saw solid growth in areas where we've been investing, including
expansion market with specialized industries, offset by lower acquisition-related and short-term financing activity.
CRE loans were up 2% with modestly higher activity in Commercial Term Lending where clients are taking
advantage of lower long-term rates, offset by declines in Real Estate Banking where we continue to be selective
given where we are in the cycle.
Finally, credit costs were $29 million with a net charge-off rate of 3 basis points.
Now on to Asset & Wealth Management on Page 7. Asset & Wealth Management reported net income of $719
million with pretax margin and ROE of 27%. Revenue of $3.6 billion for the quarter was flat year-on-year as the
impact of higher average market levels was offset by lower investment valuation gains.
Expenses of $2.6 billion were up 1% year-on-year as continued investments in advisers and technology were
partially offset by lower distribution fees. For the quarter, we saw record net long-term inflows of $36 billion driven
by fixed income and we had net liquidity inflows of $4 billion.
AUM of $2.2 trillion and overall client assets of $3 trillion, both records, were up 7%, driven by cumulative net
inflows into long term and liquidity products as well as higher market levels globally.
Deposits were up 2% sequentially and up 1% year-on-year and similar to the Commercial Bank, balances in total
have largely stabilized.
Finally, we had record loan balances, up 7% with strength in both Wholesale and Mortgage Lending.
Page 3 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Now onto Corporate on Page 8. Corporate reported net income of $828 million, including the vast majority of the
tax benefits that I mentioned earlier. Revenue was $322 million, up $242 million year-on-year due to higher net
interest income, driven by higher rates and balance sheet mix, partially offset by net losses on legacy private
equity investments versus net gains in the prior year. And expenses of $232 million were down $47 million
year-on-year.
Finally, turning to Page 9 and the outlook. On this page, I'll just comment on NII, which should not be surprising
given the changes to the rate environment. As you can see, we're updating our 2019 full year NII outlook to about
$57.5 billion. The reduction is based on multiple scenarios, which assume, among other things, lower long-end
rates and up to 3 rate cuts this year, which is consistent with current market sentiment. And as a reminder, this
compares to a rate scenario that has seen 0 cuts at the time of first quarter earnings.
So to wrap up, the U.S. consumer remains healthy. Overall, credit is in great shape, and the earning power of the
company is evident. We delivered strong returns this quarter and the diversification and scale of our business
model positions us well to outperform in any environment. Understanding there is some macro uncertainty and
potential headwinds from the rate outlook, we still expect to grow the franchise and we'll continue to strategically
invest in our businesses in technology, bankers and beyond.
And with that, operator, please open the line for Q&A.
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL, RESEARCH ANALYST, THE BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP
INCORPORATED: I noticed that Card loan growth was particularly strong this quarter. I just want to get a sense
as to what you feel is driving that uptick. And do you think -- how sustainable is it at your 8% year-over-year
growth?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure. So on current loan growth, we feel very good about what we're seeing there. As
we talked about at Investor Day, we have a real opportunity with our existing customers. And we talked about
how our existing customers have about $250 billion of borrowing off us, about $100 billion of that is squarely
within our existing buyback. So you can think of this as highly targeted to high-quality existing customers, and for
the first time, we're actually seeing loan growth in Cards, the majority of it coming from existing customers versus
new customers. And so we're really shifting the paradigm there and we feel great about being able to harvest the
opportunity that we talked to you about at Investor Day.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL: All right. Should we expect just sort of you to continue to reduce the mortgage
footprint in this rate environment?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: So on the Mortgage business, I would say, it was a good quarter on the back of the
rally, and so we did see volumes increase and we saw some margin expansion as well, and so obviously, highly
rate dependent. But I would say the structural challenges in that business remain unchanged. And so we continue
to focus on optimizing the balance sheet across capital and liquidity. And so looking at loan sales and thinking
about derisking the portfolio from a servicing perspective. So good quarter on the back of the rally, but it doesn't
change the overall structural challenges.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
ERIKA NAJARIAN, MD AND HEAD OF US BANKS EQUITY RESEARCH, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH, RESEARCH
DIVISION: So I just wanted to go back to what you were saying earlier in that your guide or your guide lower is
including up to 3 rate cuts this year, which would suggest to me that your net interest income is quite defensive in
the face of rate cuts. I guess my first question is, could you give us your primary assumption for that $500 million
swing, particularly on deposit pricing?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Okay. Sure. So first, I'll take you back to the first quarter, where our guidance was $58
billion plus and we talked about some pressure on the long end at that point. That pressure has persisted and, in
fact, increased, and so we pulled the impact of the long end through in terms of our outlook. And then on the short
end, the range of outcomes are obviously quite broad, and so we thought about a range of outcomes of 1 to 3
rate cuts. And so you can think about if it's 1 cut, $57.5 billion plus, and if it's more, $57.5 billion minus. And then
based on current advice, you can think about the third quarter being $100 million to $150 million below the
second quarter and then a bit more than that in the fourth quarter given we would have a full quarter at that point.
Page 4 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Oh, and then in terms of betas, I mean largely speaking, you can think of betas as being symmetric, and so on
the Consumer side, we saw little reprice on the way up, and so there is not a lot of opportunity on the way down.
On the Wholesale side, if you look at large institutional businesses, like Treasury Services and Securities
Services, we are largely at full reprice there, and so there should be opportunity there. And then in places like the
Commercial Bank and Asset & Wealth Management, we are still ahead of what the model would have assumed,
but we have started to see reprice tick up there. But importantly, I would say, we're not going to lose any valuable
customer relationships over a few ticks of beta, and so we'll see how it goes.
JAMES DIMON: It's all embedded in your assumption.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: And it's all embedded inâ€¦
ERIKA NAJARIAN: Okay. Got it. And just going back to Jim's question, I noticed that investment securities
balances continue to go up and mortgage loans were down another 5%. Should we think about this as part of the
overall, you were saying optimizing capital and liquidity, and therefore, as we think about it going forward, we
could also expect to see perhaps some release in RWA growth and some release in the -- continued reserve
release as part of the optimization?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure. So on the RWA side, yes, that is precisely why we are doing it, and so when you
see the loan sales in Home Lending, yes they are offset in securities purchases, which are more efficient from a
capital perspective as well as a liquidity perspective. So, yes.
Having said that, on reserves, I mean, reserves are not necessarily going to be impacted directly by that because,
of course, that will depend upon the environment and the mix of the portfolio that remains.
JAMES DIMON: And I would just say that our standardized capital ratio is at 12.2%, advanced is 13%. Advanced
is obviously a far more important relevant economic number. It simply does not make sense to own all mortgages
when you can frame by standardizing and you can't securitize.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Mayo of Wells Fargo.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO, SENIOR ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC, RESEARCH
DIVISION: So the efficiency ratio went from 56% to 55% year-over-year, and I guess that's with some accelerated
tech spending. So do you plan to keep this pace of tech spending going? And what's the current update on that
tech spending? Where is it connecting? Where is it not connecting? Because I think you said it accelerated for a
couple of years and maybe we'd see more results in 2020, 2021?
JAMES DIMON: So can I just take that one? So it's about $11.5 billion today. I think it was a little bit lower last
year. If we had to say where it is today, for next year, it would be something like $11.5 billion, and I think it's
becoming -- always becoming more efficient. But what you really have in tech, it's something that's becoming
cheaper all the time, and then you're also investing money all the time, which we're going to do regardless of the
environment. So we're not going to cut things we're trying to build like my reward programs and change my loan
and the Credit Journey because there's a resumption to something like this. So Daniel and Gordon will tell you
right now that they think they'd get more efficient spend and that we shouldn't tell people, in fact, we're doing well.
We will -- we have to spend to win in this business and we're very efficient. We're very cautious about how we
spend in technology. We're going to do it regardless of the environment and we'll try to get more efficient in tech
spend, too.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: That's right, and our investments in technology create capacity in terms of productivity
to continue to invest and we've talked a lot about AI and machine learning. It's early innings there and there's a lot
that we're going to be able to do assuming that's there and become more productive and then cloud -- developers
can become more productive using the cloud.
JAMES DIMON: Look, it's amazing, our forward costs with all the things going on in the world today are down
because of techniques with AI and big data and stuff like that. And so it's hard to complete. In fact, in You Invest,
you look at our client investment asset grew 16%, a portion of it is You Invest, and obviously, You Invest requires
hundreds of millions of dollars to build. So you've got to put all these things in perspective about how you try and
make the decisions going forward.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: And then follow-up, Jamie, you mentioned the environment, all the things taking
place in the world, how is the environment now? I mean on the one hand, you have trade war, you have lower
interest rates, you have capital markets which are down for the big banks, you have a lot of pessimism. On the
Page 5 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

other hand, you highlighted your results. What's -- when you take the temperature of the environment, what's the
temperature?
JAMES DIMON: It's not that bad. Uncertainty is a constant. The one thing in life, as you know, there's going to be
uncertainty going forward. And geopolitical tension is kind of a constant. Those things may be a little bit higher
now than normal. But we -- I think we see is global growth is north of 3%. You're kind of expecting, I think, be
2.5% this year. The consumer in the United States is doing fine. Business sentiment is a little bit worse, mostly
probably driven by the trade war. And if you travel around the world, you know that Japan is growing and Europe
is growing a little bit and Brazil's gone from negative 4% to 0%. A lot of countries have opportunity to expand.
They are doing great, but they should be doing better over the next [20, 30]. So I wouldn't get too pessimistic yet.
And obviously, the Fed will react to -- with the data they say, and they always say it's more important at this point
on than just what the Fed does. If the Fed's cutting rates and we're going into recession, that's not a good rate
cut. If the Fed actually raises rates one day because we're booming, that's not so bad.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR, SENIOR MD & SENIOR RESEARCH ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI INSTITUTIONAL
EQUITIES, RESEARCH DIVISION: I'm not sure if I missed it, but I think total average loans were up 2%
year-on-year, but that was impacted by the loan sales. Can you tell us either size of loan sales or what average
loan growth was up year-on-year without that?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: So yes, there's a few things going on in loan growth, as you say, Glenn. So we have
the loan sales, we also have the runoff of the tax-exempt portfolio. So you can think about loan growth probably
closer to 4% if you adjust for those items. And importantly, as we always say, loan growth is an outcome, not an
input, and we feel good about the loan growth that we're seeing in terms of the areas where we're investing. And
then -- and for the full year, you can think about a number if you adjust for the loan sales and ex CIB of 2% to 3%
full year.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR: Okay. Appreciate that. And then just curious on the noninterest-bearing deposits only
being down 2% year-on-year, we've seen a lot bigger numbers at some peers. Is that just strength of JPMorgan
franchise? Or are you doing anything actively to manage that lack of mix shift?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: So as I said, we are seeing balances stabilize in the Commercial Bank and AWM. We
are still seeing some migration from noninterest-bearing to interest-bearing, but largely, we're seeing those
balances stabilize. And then we do, of course, have continued growth in the Consumer Bank. And the second
quarter is typically seasonally high in the Consumer Bank. So we have some growth in noninterest-bearing there.
And even in the Consumer Bank, where we've seen growth decelerate, that's largely as a result of consumer
spending. So that feels healthy as well.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR: Okay. Maybe last one on -- appreciate the guide on 2019. Because it's a half, if you
looked forward into 2020 with no incremental rate cuts, is it remotely linear? In other words, if we think about if the
ongoing rate and curve environment persists into next year after the 2 or 3 cuts this year, are we looking at $1
billion? Or is it way too complex to oversimplify like that?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Yes, it's probably more complicated, Glenn. And so just given the range of outcomes
are as broad as they are and, importantly, if we're looking at cuts that are insurance cuts that sustain the
expansion versus cuts that may be in response to a broader economic slowdown, there are other things that we
would be talking about. So we're not going to give further guidance on 2020 until we know more.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
GERARD S. CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC, RESEARCH DIVISION: When you take a
look at your Merchant Services business, you had some really strong growth year-over-year. I think it was up
12%, and then your Card volumes, excluding the Commercial Card, were also up very strong. Can you share with
us what's driven that strong growth, that double-digit rate of growth?
JAMES DIMON: Thanks for noticing.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: I would say that is firing on all cylinders. So it's brand, it's people, it's products. It does
certainly help to have the backdrop of a healthy U.S. consumer as well and, in fact, retail sales this morning
looked strong. So we can expect that to continue.

Page 6 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GERARD S. CASSIDY: Is it more the market -- as you just referenced the retail sales, they were strong, is it more
that or are you guys also seeing gains in market share that gives you an added boost?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Yes, we have taken share in -- a little bit of share in Card. As you know, we're #1 in
sales there. I think, importantly, what's helpful in Card is that we don't even need to take share to grow just given
the secular tailwind that we have in the Card business on the electronification of cash.
JAMES DIMON: And we're taking share in merchant acquiring.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: And we're taking share in merchant acquiring, yes.
JAMES DIMON: We expect to do -- take more share in the future.
GERARD S. CASSIDY: Speaking of the future, can you guys give us some color on what your first read of Libra
is, that -- the Facebook announcement about the process -- payments system that they're going to initiate?
JAMES DIMON: Yes. So just to put it in perspective, Gerard, we've been talking about blockchain for 7 years and
very little has happened and they're going to be talking about Libra 3 years from now. So I wouldn't spend too
much time on it. We don't mind competition, and the request has always been the same. The governments are -where they can see -- we want a level-playing field, and governments are going to insist that people who hold
money or move money, all the liquidity in the world where they have the right amount of controls in place, no one
wants to aid, in fact, terrorism or criminal activities and that's going to be true for everybody involved in this, not
only basically doing either KYC, BSA for a long period of time and those fears I think would just become for
everybody at one point and they should.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from John McDonald of Autonomous.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD, SENIOR ANALYST LARGE-CAP BANKS, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: I
wanted to ask about the CCAR and you've got a big authorization this year. How did you approach the CCAR
plan this year in relation to your long-term CET1 target of 11% and 12% that you talked about?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure. So as we think about capital distribution first, we would start by always saying
that we prefer to use our capital to invest and grow our businesses and then to have a competitive and
sustainable dividend and only then to return excess capital to our shareholders. And so we are pleased with the
approval and the additional capacity to return that $29.4 billion to shareholders.
Having said that, we are still targeting the upper end of the 11% to 12% range. We're always going to want to
have a management buffer because, as I had said, our first priority will always be to invest and grow our
businesses and then, of course, there remains a lot of uncertainty in terms of the regulatory capital framework.
And then importantly, we wouldn't actually need to make that decision for a few more quarters, given the way the
capital distribution plan is laid out over 4 quarters. But as of now, we are still targeting the upper end of 11% to
12%.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD: Okay. And any updated thoughts on CECL? Or could you remind us of what your
thoughts are on initial impact there?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure. So it hasn't changed from Investor Day. Our range continues to be $4 billion to
$6 billion, then we're prepared for the January 1 implementation.
JAMES DIMON: Just to take a chance. So CCAR is 1 test a year on stress. We do 120 a week, and so we are
always prepared for stress. CCAR has us losing $20 billion or $30 billion over 9 consecutive quarters. I just want
to remind you all that the 9 quarters after Lehman, the real stress event, we made $20 billion or $30 billion. And
CCAR assumes you're going to grow your balance sheet, it assumes you're going to continue your dividends and
stuff like that. We have plenty of capital. I mean our capital cup runneth over, and we prefer to deploy that capital.
And remember, things like all these branches, every branch will eventually use $10 million of capital. So 400
branches of them should be $4 billion in capital. So restraints on growth, also restraints on capital usage and
ability to finance the U.S. economy. So we're really optimistic about our ability to somehow use our capital,
including our InstaMed acquisition we just did, which I think closes sometime soon, so.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK, MD, MORGAN STANLEY, RESEARCH DIVISION: Jamie, you mentioned about
blockchain. We've been hearing about it for 7 years and not much has happened. But I think you at JPM have
built a blockchain solution for at least your correspondent banks. And I guess I wanted to understand where you
Page 7 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

think you're planning on taking that right now, just a AML and KYC use case. But is that something that you think
you could deliver more functionality over time?
JAMES DIMON: So we think the blockchain is real, and the reason it takes so long is you have to -- people agree
to the protocol, people write a lot of code to get into it. But the one you're referring to, IAN, is -- think of it
information network of banks. So right now, banks transfer a lot of information among each other, think of trade
finance and correspondent banking and stuff like that. So I think we have like 120 banks signed up. We're going
to have 400. So right now, it's for bank wholesale use to have -- needing information. We all have the same
information. You can move things. But eventually, you'll be able to move money quicker with data. So yes, we're
optimistic about that, and we're going to roll it out as soon as we can and constantly test it to make sure it's
secure and all that.
I remind people, when it comes to moving money, JPMorgan Chase moves $6 trillion a day quite securely and
quite cheaply. You've got to look at the problem you're trying to solve, but people would generally say, well, they
didn't have real-time payments. That was true, and now we do effectively sell from P2P and now we do effectively
(inaudible) they're called RTP, real-time payments in TCH. So we are building the things that the future is going to
want, APIs, blockchain ledgers that have much more data, a real-time movement of money that also goes through
floor checks, et cetera. So we're quite optimistic about it. It will just take a while to get everyone using it. One day
it will have to be opened up to a broader customer set possibly.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: So one of the things that's coming out in the Senate and House, financial services,
banking committee meetings is this desire for real-time payments, desire for a cheaper solution for payments.
And that's supposedly what Libra is going to offer. But to your point, it seems like you're already doing that. The
question is, how do we think about the outlook for interchange? And is there -- what's your strategy towards
interchange pricing here as we go over this period?
JAMES DIMON: [It's interesting to raise]. There is real-time, P2P free, safe and secure called Zelle. So when
people say, you can do it, that's already done. That's not cross-border. So there are people who might want to do
that across border. Remember, cross-border remittances are much, much smaller than actual use of debit card,
credit card payment systems here. And there, you see built in real-time payment solution actually already in use.
And to me, the issue there is diminish fraud. You have to make sure that in real-time payments, that you also put
it through effectively a real-time floor checks and stuff like that. So in the United States, credit cards, debit cards,
these are -- people love these cards. The beneficiary's the consumer. You guys remember that's who we're here
to serve. And someone is going to pay eventually for services provided, but people like their credit cards. They
use their credit cards far more than they use their debit cards, right? I don't remember the last time I used my
debit card.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: Yes, when you get rewards, it's great. Okay.
JAMES DIMON: And JPMorgan, now you're getting more free stuff. You get free -- you can buy and sell stock for
free. We just gave you a very good -- it just got rolled out and we only have a few accounts, but global investing,
very cheap, very clear. So we're going to take and give our clients more and better and faster and cheaper all the
time, and now we package that with Sapphire Banking and Sapphire card or discounts on mortgages that are not
always made to be seen, but the future is very bright because if we can do more for our customers, that's a very
good thing.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: And don't forget, on credit cards, you get charge-back rights and you get the flows.
JAMES DIMON: Right, and you get -- you're going to want -- if you're a Chase customer, you get your FICO score
for free. You're going to be able to -- you got -- we're going to tell customers they're great for financial education,
how they can improve their FICO score. You get offers like the Chase (inaudible) end users. I mean you really
don't really market it, but it's really taken off.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure, so the Chase offers, we talked about that at Investor Day. It's like a really
powerful flywheel where we can -- we can deliver value to our large merchant clients in terms of being able to
bring a very large customer base to them and then we can deliver that value to our customers at 0 cost to us. And
so as I said in the presentation, we've had over 60 million Chase offers activated and so this is really powerful and
benefits not just our consumers, but our large merchant clients and at 0 cost to us.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: So a message of more efficient, less cost maybe needs to get heard on the hill as well.
JAMES DIMON: Yes. And we talked about it a lot of time and a lot of people understand that, and of course, we
always want to do a better job for consumers, which we have been referring.
Page 8 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

BETSY LYNN GRASECK: Yes, I guess the final question here is just on the under-banked. Is there something or
is there an offer that you have for them? Are you considering that? Because that, I'm just thinking about where
fintech's trying to exploit you and I know it's a catchphrase under-banked that is being used by Libra, it doesn't
necessarily to me seem like it's solving anything for them, but maybe you've got a better solution that we just don't
focus on.
JAMES DIMON: Yes, so we have -- so talking about this thing and what JP has, I think 25% of our branches are
around my neighborhoods. When we go to those neighborhoods, we do some (inaudible). We're doing more and
more financial education which I think this is really important. I just mentioned the FICO score, but maybe there
might be other things we can do, we do Chase chats to get people into the branch, educate them about saving,
FICO scores. What you need to do to get a mortgage or buy a house and stuff like that. And then we have a
product, which really is great called Secure Banking and think of it as a card where it's the full thing. You can
overdraft, I think it's $4.95 a month. You can use ATM, you can have direct deposit, you can do online mobile
payments and stuff like that. So we think that's a great product for the under-banked and I think that's going to
have 25% or -- and we'll kind of push that a little bit more. So we always [kind of come with the bank]. And then
we also have special, I call it venture banking, the Entrepreneurs of Color Fund. We're making loans to
entrepreneurs of color which are not traditional bank loans that help you grow your businesses. We're finding a lot
of ways to do it and there'll be a lot of (inaudible) standard. I would say we're at the forefront of that.
Fintech, of course, all these firms are trying to eat your lunch. And I think that's good, it's called American
capitalism and we have to stay on our toes to compete, but we are. Like Jenn was just -- cards and she rolled out
last year -- announced it last year, My Chase Plan, Chase My Loan, so that people can view their credit balances
immediately to do what they want to do and do it well. We rolled out Zelle P2P that's good for everybody. So if
you have a bank account, you can move money to your friends and relatives rather than pay the $10 money
changer fees and stuff like that. So we're already trying to do a better job for the American consumer. We think
we do a great job for them and when they do have complaints, we'll fix it.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: That's right, and you mentioned the 25% in LMI (inaudible) in terms of our branch
footprint, in our expansion market, that's 30%.
JAMES DIMON: Right.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN, MD AND SENIOR EQUITY RESEARCH ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC,
RESEARCH DIVISION: Just wanted to ask on the balance sheet, last year so you've seen a huge jump in the
trading-related assets and I know you had the accounting change that you mentioned in the supplement, but
could you talk about, is that related to market share gains? Is it related to just specific strategies with regard to
managing liquidity? And it doesn't seem to be equally growing on the asset side in the trading liability. So just can
you explain the dynamics behind that and how that adds to the net interest income story?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure. So in terms of the balance sheet growth that you saw quarter-over-quarter, that
was primarily related to our balance sheet and tens of businesses in Markets businesses. And then we were
down on a spot basis quarter-over-quarter. But we start with deposit growth, and so we have had strong deposit
growth, and so you see that reflected on the balance sheet side as well as you would have seen securities
balances as well and some of that is adding duration and some of that is short-duration securities that are higher
yielding than IOER, and yes, so.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: Okay. So it is part of the liquidity management strategy. Okay. Jenn, did you say
what the amount of the gains that you had on the loan sales this quarter?
JAMES DIMON: Just a quick one; if you get a higher return on REIT body, you get IOER, you're going to do that.
If you get higher returns using standardized capital on securities than you are on the home loans, you're going to
do that, and that's what we're seeing in some of these banks.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: That's right, the Street. I should have mentioned about home sales and home lending.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: Right. Okay. Got it. That makes sense. And did you say what the amount -- can
you tell us what the amount of the gains on the loan sales this quarter were if they were above trend?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: We haven't disclosed the amounts of the gains and we had some loan sales in the
fourth quarter, the first quarter and the second quarter. The first and second quarter, in terms of the notional
amount, the first quarter was about $7 billion and the second quarter was about $9 billion, so just a little bit more.
Page 9 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMES DIMON: The gains in the second quarter that were -- they show up in different places, but not much -- not
material.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Yes. Yes.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: Got it. And lastly, just any thoughts on the Investment Banking pipeline and just a
continuation of the outlook across the buckets there of banks?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure. So in terms of the Investment Banking pipeline, I'll just remind you that the third
quarter is typically a seasonally lower quarter, and so sequentially, you should think about IB fees being down a
bit. That said, the pipeline is healthy, although off a record performance last year, which is assumption of a
reversion to more normal levels of activity as well as some overhang from macro uncertainty. In M&A, still feels
very healthy and it's still a stage where companies are looking for synergistic opportunities for growth, especially
in North America; perhaps Europe, a bit more muted. ECM, we had a very strong second quarter. So that will
taper off in the second half a bit. But I would say deals are getting done well in the current environment. And then
DCM, DCM will be more subdued reflecting a slowdown in acquisition financing activity as well as refinancing
opportunities, but albeit with a good backdrop for new issuance given the rate environment.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR, MD IN EQUITY RESEARCH, DEUTSCHE BANK AG, RESEARCH DIVISION: So I
realize rate expectations can change quickly, but how do you think about managing the company in a rate
environment that follows the curve that's out there for 3 to 4 cuts? And you said earlier, you wouldn't cut back on
technology, but are other areas in expenses you think about managing the balance sheet and liquidity a little bit
different?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure. So in terms of balance sheet management, we manage the balance sheet in
both directions. It's a negatively convex balance sheet, and so all else being equal, as rates are declining, we
would naturally drift shorter driven both by assets and liabilities. So you would expect us to add duration, which
we did this quarter. But we're not going to change the way we run the company because of the rate environment.
We're going to continue serving our clients, investing with discipline and managing the balance sheet across all
dimensions, that being capital, liquidity and duration.
And then in terms of expenses, again, we're not going to change the way we run the company because of an
interest rate environment. And I'll just say again that the range of outcomes are very broad here. And so if we end
up with insurance cuts, it's a temporary headwind; and if we end up with cuts in response to a broader economic
slowdown, there will be a lot more to talk about. But as Jamie always says, we're not going to change the way we
run the company because of the macro environment.
That said, in a broader slowdown, obviously, there are natural levers on our volume-related expenses and we
redecision a large part of our investment portfolio on an annual basis. We will always continue to invest in the
things that we think are important, but we would have that opportunity depending upon the opportunity to take a
look at that.
JAMES DIMON: Remember, in a real recession, there are always opportunities to reduce your costs and vendors
fall all over themselves to give you better deals and stuff like that. There are also huge opportunities to spending
money wisely. Our Sapphire card was birthed in '09, and you could imagine that this healthy growth might be
another great opportunity, but we're not going to take it. And so I think you've got to be very careful. Where there's
marketing money, it's usually better spent in a downturn; the returns on it immediately double.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR: And you talked about the capital and your thought process there. Obviously, the
authorization of the buybacks is a very big number. Is it your expectations that you'll use it all or is that still to be
determined based on balance sheet growth, stock price and the environment?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: I would say still to be determined. Our first choice will always be to use our excess
capital to invest and grow our business, so still to be determined. And as you know, it's over 4 quarters, and so
we have time to think about it, but obviously, we have the flexibility.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR: Is the timing of that even, or is there a flexibility there too?
JAMES DIMON: It has been in the past, but we can change that every day.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Saul Martinez of UBS.
Page 10 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

SAUL MARTINEZ, MD & ANALYST, UBS INVESTMENT BANK, RESEARCH DIVISION: Couple of questions.
First on the NII outlook beyond this year and I fully appreciate you're not giving guidance beyond this year. But
you do have the guidance from Investor Day out there of a sustainable NII of $58 billion to $60 billion that was set
in a very, very different rate environment. If we were to see multiple rate cuts, how do we think about that
guidance and how -- I mean what are some of the moving parts that might get you perhaps to the lower end of
that $58 billion to $60 billion? Is it simply dependent on how the economy responds, deposit pricing? If you can
just kind of outline what you think some of those moving parts are?
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Sure. So the guidance we gave at Investor Day steady-state $58 billion to $60 billion, I
would say, largely still stands. Importantly because when we talked about that at Investor Day, we weren't
assuming any further benefit from rate. So we were assuming that any incremental increases in rates would be
offset and repriced, and so the majority of that growth was going to come from balance sheet growth and mix.
And if you remember the slides, there were a number of arrows on the slide. Even at that time, which was
obviously a different rate environment, we were implying that there were a number of different paths to get there.
And so that obviously continues to be true. And so there may be a different path to get there, it may take a little bit
longer, but we still believe in that steady-state number because we still believe in the growth of the franchise.
SAUL MARTINEZ: Okay. Okay. That's helpful. If I could change gears a little bit, you recently announced that
you're closing Finn or you closed Finn, and I think the stated logic is you learned that millennials don't need a
separate brand or experience. But can you just elaborate on the logic there and what you learned from that
experience? Because it does seem to maybe fly in the face of what some other entities or financial institutions are
doing with their digital banking strategy?
JAMES DIMON: Go ahead, Jenn.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: I was just going to say, we learned a lot in Finn. You said it, that we learned that
importance of power to change brands certainly means that we don't need a separate brand. We also learned
about a number of features that our customers love and we were able to reuse those features and port them over
to the Chase mobile app. And so I think we always need to be testing and learning and doing things like this and
not afraid to shut them down when we've learned what we needed to learn and can serve our customers through
the primary Chase mobile app.
JAMES DIMON: We've learned a lot like that and how to do digital account openings only digital because we do it
out of a retail banking center, the line that you already have, so there's a lot of lessons there. We're always going
to be learning some kind of skunkworks and learning from things like that. And so we don't look at those kind of
things like failures at all. That is how you learn. And Jeff Bezos will tell you, "Mistakes are good, mistakes are
what make you smarter and better," and so I hope we make some really good mistakes that can teach us and all
of our business at one point.
The people doing Finn did a great job, they're embedded. And by the way, you can open a Chase account now
and never go into a branch and you could open an account, it only takes minutes to open an account. So we've
got much better at digital only, but we got it separated from the physical branch system.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Yes, the digital account opening is now about 25% of our new account activity.
JAMES DIMON: And we'll be doing this in small business and merchant processing and all these various things.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Eric Compton of Morningstar.
ERIC COMPTON, EQUITY ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR INC., RESEARCH DIVISION: This question kind of ties
into some of the items already mentioned, longer-term kind of tech-focused and also related to Finn. So there has
been some press recently about reasons for closing down the Finn app and one of the items that was mentioned
was some of the difficulties banks can potentially run into with their legacy platforms, which, for the most part, are
built on COBOL, which has been around since the '60s and depending on who you talk up to, these legacy
platforms can either be like huge problems for banks or not really a big deal. So I guess from the outside, at least
for me, it can be kind of hard to tell what really is going on there. So my question is, as you compete with fintech
firms who are building new platforms from scratch, how do you strategically view dealing with your own legacy
platforms? Is there a need to kind of redo these things eventually in order to actually compete with newer tech
over time? Do these legacy platforms really hamstring you in any way? Or is the hype around those issues really
overdone? And if so, why?
JAMES DIMON: The hype has been around now for the better part of a decade, right? And we seem to be doing
fine. But it is true -- and some of these legacy platforms are also the reason why we have 50 million customers.
Page 11 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

But it is true that over time, these platforms would be reformulated and refactored to be cloud eligible and things
like that. And those things are more efficient. So your costs will go down, your error rates will go down.
So the way I look at it a little bit is we run like 6,000 or 7,000 applications. Over time, those will be modularized
and being refactored to be cloud eligible, that's either by private cloud or a public cloud. And yes, they will be
more efficient. But we also have tons of new digital platforms, AI built around these things that do the customer
service upside that they see. They go over accounts in minutes. You get your free Credit Journey, you get -- we
can modify so many things in days and weeks as opposed to years because you're not mucky with the old legacy
system. And so it's a little bit of both.
But those numbers are embedded in our tech spend. The refactor rate, embedding data centers, getting better
and AI, already in those numbers.
OPERATOR: And we have no further questions at this time.
JAMES DIMON: Well, thank you very much. Jenn, you did a great job. We'll talk to you all in a quarter. Thank
you.
JENNIFER A. PIEPSZAK: Thanks, everyone. Thanks, James.
OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020190717ef7g00231

Page 12 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

