Q2 2008 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
11,498 words
17 July 2008
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
FNDW
English
© Voxant Inc. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the JPMorgan Chase second quarter 2008
earnings call. This call is being recorded. Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements reflect
management's current beliefs and speak only as of the date hereof. In addition, such statements are, by their
nature, subject to significant risk and uncertainties and the firm's actual returns may differ materially from those
described in such forward-looking statements. Please refer to JPMorgan Chase's filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, including its most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q for a description of the risk and
factors that could cause the firm's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking
statements.
Today's presentation may also reference to non-GAAP financial measures and you should refer to the information
contained in the written slides accompanying this presentation for information about their calculation.
The firm's SEC filings and such slides are available at the firm's website. At the conclusion of the presentation,
you'll have the opportunity to ask a question. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jamie
Dimon and Chief Financial Officer, Mike Cavanagh. Mr. Cavanagh, please go ahead, sir.
MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good morning, everybody. It's Mike and Jamie here.
We're going to do the usual so you've got a presentation available to you on our website that I will walk through all
the businesses and then Jamie and I will take some Q&A. If you go to the presentation, I just want to start right off
the bat on page one for the sake of clarity throughout all the numbers, just explain right up front how the
accounting for the Bear Stearns acquisition, which closed during the quarter, affects all the numbers throughout
the presentation, and really I'm going to hit this quickly and simply reference you back to what we said the last
time we gave you an update here in mid-May. For anybody who has detailed follow-ups we can take that offline.
Working through the big items here, first of all, the extraordinary gains, there isn't one. It's zero. We talked about
that being possibly as much as $1 billion in May, down from our earlier estimates. So obviously deteriorated a bit
from where we expected to be in May but for the same reasons we described there at the time we gave the
guidance in May. So all it really means is, we in the pricing of the deal, we had cushion and which we ended up in
fact needing, and used all that up in the deleveraging and accounting for the deal and reserving associated with it.
The next big item is just merger-related items that run through the operating results of the company for the
quarter, which totaled $540 million, and we're putting all of those in corporate and that compares with $500 million
after tax that we had expected or talked about at the time of our last update in mid-May. That again breaks down
into two pieces, equity pickup for the shares we owned for the month pre-the-close of $423 million (corrected by
company after the call) and other merger-related items, I think merger expenses and other things of $117 million
after tax. So those are the above the line items of $540 million that's Bear Stearns related. You think about, we
talked also at the last update about merger costs and merger related expenses that continue past this quarter.
We talked about that number being as high as $900 million after tax, bringing that guidance down a bit, it will
probably come out to be something more in the neighborhood of about $500 million after tax over time. It will be
lumpy. You can think of it being maybe up to $150 million after tax or so per quarter for the second half of the
year and then trend down over time beyond that in '09 and after.

Page 1 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Beyond that, though, the real point is that we continue to be very confident that the ongoing businesses we've
picked up, prime services, equity, et cetera, are going to contribute on a go-forward basis, the $1 billion plus after
tax of annualized earnings by the time we get ramped back up and exit '09 going into 2010, so continue to be
confident about that. And then last point is just geography of all this. As I said, we put the merger-related
expenses for the quarter and in future go in corporate, but the ongoing activities, that $1 billion of earnings that
we'll ramp up to will appear in the Investment Bank and Asset Management businesses where the Bear Stearns
businesses went. Last point on just the merger-related items, we talked about derisking the balance sheet that we
took over from Bear Stearns. So we're very pleased with the progress we've made on that score. Risk weighted
assets, which we calculated under our message of about $220 billion or so, reduced by 45% or so as of the June
30th reporting date and VAR reduced, Bear Stearns VAR reduced by about 70%. So to sum up at the bottom
what it all means, the total income of the company after tax was $2 billion or $0.54. That includes in it what I
described above, the $540 million of merger-related items or $0.15 worth, leaving us with results ex the Bear
Stearns items of $2.5 billion after tax.
Moving on to page two, I'm sure you've read all this. These are the highlights from our press release, identifying
special credit reserving items and marks underlying growth across the businesses and strong capital position so
I'm going to save this and go through this as we roll through the presentation. So let's skip past slide 2 as well as
slide 3 which just tabulates the numbers for you on a consolidated basis and go straight to the Investment Bank's
results which we'll dive into in detail on slide 4.
If you see here on slide 4, we had profits in the investment bank after tax of $394 million on revenue of $5.5
billion. The June results for Bear Stearns are included in these numbers, and the overall results in the Investment
Bank would have been a bit better but for that, so there's a little bit of a drag from Bear Stearns' results for the
month of June in the Investment Bank, though we expect that to turn around and make a positive contribution in
the second half of the year. Working down the revenue components of the Investment Bank, you see we had a
$1.7 billion of Investment Banking fees, the circled number over there, which is our second highest quarterly
performance of all time. So obviously we feel very, very pleased with the continued strength of our investment
banking corporate finance and advisory franchise and you'll see some of the rankings on the next page.
Moving down, Fixed Income markets, $2.4 billion, 2.3, down slightly from a year ago, which is very strong, despite
the fact that in these numbers, we took markdowns of about $700 million on leveraged loans, which I'll go through
in a second, and markdowns of about $400 million on mortgage related positions we have in the Investment
Bank. Clearly, offset by very strong performance in rates, currencies and some other businesses, emerging
markets and credit trading as well and slight positive, $165 million related to widening of our credit spreads on
structured notes in the Fixed Income business. Equity Markets, a $1.1 billion, down a bit from a year ago, total
revenues, also in there $150 million of benefit from widening of credit spreads. Moving down to the next circled
number you see there, credit costs of $398 million, so we added -- is essentially no charge-offs in the quarter, net
recoveries, actually, slight net recoveries, but we added about $400 million to allowance for loan losses, given the
deteriorating trends in some of the names in the portfolio and that brings our overall loan loss allowance to
average loans you see it averaging 3.19% at the end of the quarter, that's 3.35%. Extremely strong, up from
2.55% at the end of last quarter and you'll see that across other businesses as well.
Continuing down, you see expenses of $4.7 billion, up over the prior year, in part due to Bear Stearns but
primarily due to the high comp to revenue ratio in the quarter, which you see as 57%. That brings us to
year-to-date comps revenue of 52% which we think positions us properly, given the environment that we're faced
with and the performance year-to-date and we'll obviously see what the second half of the year brings. Lastly, we
had a benefit in the tax line that contributed to net income being about flat to pretax income. And lastly, on VAR,
you see $142 million is our VAR calculation for the quarter, $139 million spot at the end of the quarter, up only
slightly from the $122 million that JPMorgan had alone at the end of last quarter, so that speaks to the derisking
that we did on the combined balance sheet and the Investment Bank of the Bear Stearns assets we brought on
together with JPMorgan positions that were there to start with. And topped up the common equity that we allocate
to the business from $22 billion to $26 billion, which is up a total of $5 billion versus the year-ago period.
Moving on to slide 5, you can read it for yourself, it's number one working all the way down the page of all the
capital raising categories that are here along with year-over-year increases in share. And as I said, that translates
also into number one in global fees. So it's not just league table rankings, there's also fees as well along with
being number three on an announced basis in M&A.
Moving on to slide 6, I'll just talk you through some of the remaining significant risks we have in the Investment
Bank. So remember, I'm talking leveraged lending now on slide 6. Remember that JPMorgan as of the last
quarter end, 3/31 of '08, we had $22.5 billion of total lending commitments that we talked to you about. From here
forward, I'm just going to break that down into what we call -- are now going to call legacy deals, think of those as
Page 2 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

$18.3 billion embedded in last quarter's end that were hung deals from last summer, off market terms against
which we had to take marks, versus $4.2 billion at the time of the recent commitments done at market terms,
which are moving in and out the door on a normal type of basis. So focused only on the $18.3 billion of leveraged
loans, you see in the third bullet here that we started with 18.3, we added $1.9 billion related to Bear Stearns
legacy commitments, we sold 19% of that combined exposure of $3.9 billion, to end the quarter with $16.3 billion
of leverage -- legacy leveraged lending commitments. During the quarter, we took the $696 million of markdowns
net of hedges, which brings us to cumulative markdowns of $3.3 billion or 20% of that $16.3 billion of
commitments. Obviously, that's 20% average mark and each position is specifically marked where appropriate.
Level three assets, no major change, slight uptick from 6% overall to 7% or so, which you'll see more when we file
our Q.
Moving on now to slide 7, Investment Bank mortgage related exposures, here, look at the second blue row. Total
mortgage exposure at 3/31 for JPMorgan alone, looking across what we flagged for you before as the risky
components of the mortgage space, $28.2 billion across prime, Alt-A, subprime and CMBS. When you pro forma
that for what we acquired and brought on to the balance sheet together with Bear Stearns, at that time, it would
have increased to $45.8 billion and then during the quarter from that peak level we brought it down by 28% or
$12.8 billion to get down to the $33 billion we have across these categories at the end of the quarter. Obviously,
down substantially, still a bit more than we want to have so we'll be continuing to actively reduce here.
Mortgage-related markdowns, so against all this is where we took the $405 million of marks net of hedges and I'm
not going to talk you through each bullet which gives you a little bit of texture on what's in each line, but just point
out that much of what we own is AAA securities. We actively hedge across these categories where we think it
actually makes sense. And of course see very little subprime when you look at the table. So that's it for slide 7.
And last point on the Investment Bank, slide 8, let me just aside from the financial impact of Bear Stearns, got to
say we're pleased with the progress we've made on integrating the business into ours. So on the people side,
people selection done, 7,000 or so Bear Stearns employees have been identified to join the combined Investment
Bank. On the infrastructure side, a tremendous amount of work done to get the May 30th closing done and
integration there and as you can read for yourself, we've got a robust set of plans, business by business, unit by
unit, to go all the way through to bringing it fully integrated infrastructure so it's a lot of work still to do. We know
how to do all this stuff and that work is under way and think of that as business as usual execution for us from
now and at the bottom of the page, a repeat of some of the details of the derisking that I talked about upfront.
So with that I'll leave the Investment Bank and move on slide 9 to Retail Financial Services, where we'll look on
page 9 at some of the stats that drive the overall performance of the business. So look at these and keep in mind
that on the next page you're going to see 15% revenue growth in the Retail Financial Services businesses overall
and this is what's driving it. So you see continued growth momentum across these stats. So starting with the
Regional Bank, you see deposits of $214 billion, up 3% from a year ago. And checking accounts below that circle
at 11.3 million, up 9% from a year ago.
Along with that comes the continued growth in sales activity against the customer base, mortgage originations,
investment sales, credit card sales, all up and all continued focus on investing in the growth of this business for
the long term. The other side of it is tightened underwriting standards in the lending businesses driving Home
Equity originations of $5.3 billion in the quarter, down 64% from a year ago. And then mortgage loan originations,
$56.1 billion in the quarter, which is up from a year ago. Our share in the business is actually up from in the mid
single digits to something like 14% or so overall which we're pleased with. And you'll see that much of that, more
than 90% of that origination is conforming to government standards. So moving along through to the agencies.
And lastly, 15% growth in the servicing book.
Moving on to slide 10, you'll see how that translates into P&L. So total profit in the business, $606 million after tax
for the quarter, which is down year-over-year despite the 15% revenue growth to $5 billion that you saw from the
prior page. And the big driver here is credit. So you see circled the $1.3 billion of total credit costs in the Retail
business, which includes higher charge-offs across all the major categories and I'm going to go through in a
second. Along with additions to reserves, loan loss reserves of $430 million, primarily related to the subprime and
prime mortgage portfolios and then additional to that we added $170 million in loan loss provision to get to a total
of $600 million against the residential mortgage portfolios. That $170 million relates to prime loans we hold in the
corporate investment portfolio booked in corporate, which you'll see in a second as well. Expenses, modest
growth really reflecting the top line growth that you see. And then you can read for yourself where the profit
growth really comes from with tremendous improvements and growth in the profits of the deposit-taking consumer
and banking business, which is up to $674 million of profits.
Let me now dive down for a second now into the credit picture for the Retail business, so on slide 11 -- you've
seen all these pages before. I'm not going to walk through every piece of it here. Let me take you immediately to
Page 3 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

the upper right-hand corner here, key stats, where you see the total portfolio here at $95 billion in home equity.
We had $511 million of net charge-offs, up from $447 million last quarter and obviously up very substantially from
a year ago. Now, we talked about this as being a portfolio that versus the first quarter $450 million or so of
charge-offs was potentially going to grow to $900 million of charge-offs by the fourth quarter of this year, is what
we told you at our Investor Day. What I would say now is the $511 million is still going to deteriorate by maybe a
couple hundred million dollars to get to a quarterly level that could be -- may be less than 900, could be around
$700 million or so, but it's still too early to declare victory on that but the trend of deterioration may be slowing a
bit here, but we'll wait and see.
Moving on to subprime, though, on page 12, go to the same upper right box and you see the $14.8 billion
portfolio, which by the way is in runoff at this stage. We've effectively eliminated all new production in this bucket.
So that $14.8 billion deteriorating credit continues, so charge-offs of $192 million in the quarter, up from $150
million last quarter. Here I would say these numbers could increase to something to the tune of $350 million per
quarter sometime in 2009 if we continue to see no improvement in some of the loss curves as we talked to you
about before.
Lastly on the prime side, slide 13, you see in total split between what sits in corporate and what sits in the Retail
business, $47 billion of prime loans and charge-offs related to that of $104 million, split between those two
categories, corporate and Retail, for 91 basis points of charge-offs. Obviously, very high and up dramatically from
a year ago. And here again, the loss curves, unless they abate, we could see these quarterly losses growing to
be as high as $300 million a quarter sometime in 2009 but likely to take a few quarters before we get there.
Card. Moving along from Retail to card, on page 14. Pretty much as we expected in May. So you see that we had
net income of $250 million, down year-over-year. The big driver here is credit costs. So you see a charge-off rate
of 4.98% so just shy of 5% or right at 5% as we talked about, along with, we added $300 million to the allowance
for loan losses in the credit costs line during the quarter. And so even though you see decent growth relative to
the competitive field and average outstandings up 4% from a year ago and flattish from prior quarter, and charge
volume growth of 7% in sales volume, despite that, you see a pretty weak revenue growth, just up 2%
year-over-year, and as we talked about, we would have expected that to be a little stronger, given the weakening
of the credit environment. But the somewhat good news is that the low level of early delinquency rates, the 30 day
delinquencies, still at 3.46% or so, together with continued relatively strong payment rates in this environment is
not giving us the revenue pickup we would usually expect to see in the business so we'll see whether that
continues in the second half of the year or not.
Moving on to the commercial bank, slide 15, great results here. You see for yourself, record profits of $355
million, up strongly from a year ago on record revenues of $1.1 billion which is up 10%, happening across all
products. You see the balance sheet, 19% growth in loans and 18% growth in liability balances as the people in
this business do a great job of capitalizing on a challenging environment for many of our competitors, taking
market share. In particular on the revenue side, I just want to point out, remember we talked about at the time of
the Bank One merger the opportunity here to grow annualized Investment Banking revenues delivered to this
customer base from something like 4 or $500 million annualized to $1 billion was our goal. This quarter we set a
record there and with $270 million per quarter of investment banking revenues have exceeded that target for the
first time.
Credit actually continues to be a well-behaved tier. Credit costs running -- charge-offs running 28 basis points
below through the cycle average here and very strong allowance to loan coverage, 2.61% ratio there. Feel very
good about that and a very modest change in non-performers in the course of the quarter. Also now moving on to
Treasury & Securities Services, you see excellent results here as well, $425 million of profits, up 21% from a year
ago. That's a record, as is the revenues of $2 billion, up 16% from a year ago in both the Treasury Services and
worldwide security services segment. And liability balances, again, think deposits up 23% from a year ago and
assets under custody to $15.5 trillion, up 2% from a year ago. A little bit of seasonal benefit in the dividend
season in Europe, gives some revenue lift from the first quarter to the second, that will abate a bit as we go from
second to third. And moving on lastly, across the businesses to Asset Management, here we had $395 million of
profits, up from last quarter, down from a year ago. The decline from a year ago obviously driven by the lower
market levels driving management fees down as well as year-over-year decrease in performance fees driving the
changes in the institutional and Retail segments you see there. Private bank revenues up very strongly and we
continue to do what we need to do to build -- continue to build what we think is a great business here.
On corporate, slide 18, just break it down into three pieces as you're used to seeing two of them and Bear
Stearns is new. So Private Equity had after tax profits of $99 million on pretax gains of $220 million, portfolio
ended at $7.7 billion of carrying value. The Bear Stearns numbers of $540 million after tax negative, exactly what
I talked to you about on the first page, so I won't bother talking about that, and then corporate, excluding both of
Page 4 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

those pieces, $19 million for the positive, you see in the bullets on the right, We hold in the investment portfolio
originated by retail of $157 million to the negative after tax on both higher charge-offs and reserve additions there.
Moving to slide 19, I'll just spend a second on the capital position so you see here in the middle of the page the
Tier 1 capital ratio, very strong at 9.1%. I will tell you that we had talked about the relief that we got in our risk
weighted assets for our intended liquidation and reduction of the Bear Stearns balance sheet over the next year
or so is relief in the risk weighted assets number, without any of that relief, we would still have been at at an 8.1%
Tier 1 ratio, which we we think is obviously excellent given that this is a quarter with challenging markets for
reducing balance sheet and risk. We nonetheless absorbed the entirety of Bear Stearns and still maintained our
target range of 8 to 8.5% Tier 1 even without the relief that we have here. The relief suggests that we intend to
continue to reduce risk there as time goes by. You look down the page, all the ratios on whether it's on a with
relief basis or without, extremely strong.
I'll just point out at the top of the page, you see Tier 1 capital of $99 billion, up from $89 billion last quarter, if you
recall we issued $6 billion of a straight DRD preferred stock issuance in the quarter and tangible common equity,
obviously up without that, just due to growth in the retained earnings position of the company. So very strong
capital position, but I will point out that in that Tier 1 capital, our mix of components of Tier 1 capital is more
heavily weighted on average to common equity and your traditional trust preferreds, so like we did the straight
DRD preferred in the first quarter, we have ample room to issue hybrid type of capital instruments to help us
make sure we are in a position to meet organic balance sheet growth needs of our businesses and what
obviously is a great time to have capital to deploy, yet still be confident that we're going to be able to maintain
very strong capital ratios, if we choose to do so. And that is it for the current quarter.
Let me just take you through slide 20 and just talk you through what I haven't already in terms of outlook. So in
the Investment Bank in particular, obviously the markets look to remain challenging and volatile and stressed for
the remainder of the year, and liquidity is not as strong as we would like to see it just yet. So it's a reasonable
expectation to see continued lower levels of earnings than we would like to see over time in the Investment Bank
for now. While we have strong loan loss reserves in the Investment Bank, and as I said, low level of current
losses, credit is pretty idiosyncratic in this segment so a single name in the portfolio has problems and you could
see a significant P&L event in any given quarter, and despite our satisfaction with what progress we made in
balance sheet derisking during the quarter, as you saw from the pages I flagged, we still have substantial
remaining risks to remain focused on.
In Retail, the underlying growth we're going to continue to invest in growth so you can count on that. Also, as I
said, continued deterioration in the residential mortgage credit factors and just a broader point that the weaker
that housing gets, you're going to start to see more and more areas of potential deterioration. So pointing out two
that could emerge somewhat in the future would be greater level of loan repurchases and also losses taken if
mortgage insurers can't meet their obligations to the banking industry. Card Services, nothing different than what
we said before, losses 5% or so in the second half of the year, plus a little bit and could average 6% in 2009 and
continued pressure on the revenue side, both charge volumes and outstanding. Commercial bank continued
underlying growth, same in Treasury Services.
Asset Management, got to remain focused on market levels because that obviously affects both management and
can have an effect on performance fees. Lastly in the corporate segment, Private Equity, expect that in these
market conditions will trend lower than we have over time would be our best estimate so lower levels of realized
gains than what we've seen for the first half of the year. Bear Stearns, as I said up front, $500 million of after tax
merger costs remain to be booked, could run up to $150 million a quarter after tax in the third and fourth quarter
and trend down from there and lastly, on corporate, I'll just remind you that we typically talk about a net loss after
tax of in the range of 50 to $100 million. There's two exceptions to that. One is going to be on top of that we'll
have the prime mortgage credit costs as that portfolio works itself through and remember that was $157 million
after tax in this quarter. And then investment portfolio volatility, just changes in values as positions there can
cause volatility in any given quarter. So with that, I wrap up the comments here, and Jamie and I will just take
some questions.
OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).
We'll go first to Glenn Schorr with UBS.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Hey, Mike.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hey, Glen, how you doing?

Page 5 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GLENN SCHORR: All righty. I think you mentioned in the comments that Bear was a slight drag on the
Investment Bank. I'm assuming you meant some form of P&L comment but can you talk about the strength in
Investment Banking and then particularly in fixed trading on JPMorgan versus Bear and maybe a little bit more on
the color commentary by product?
MIKE CAVANAGH: You know, we don't get -- I flagged some of the areas -- I'll take it in two pieces. A little bit of
drag means that just for the month of June, the Bear Stearns ongoing activities contributed somewhat to the
marks we took in leveraged loans and mortgages, as well as we basically have taken on expenses ahead of
revenues, so a little bit of drag after tax related to that. So all that's saying is the $400 million of after tax profits in
our Investment Bank could have been a couple hundred million higher had it not been for including the Bear
Stearns results in the second quarter but as we said, those results are going to trend to the positive beginning in
the second half of the year. They'll be incrementally positive. As we said, the areas of strength, as you would
expect, very strong results in rates, currencies, emerging markets, credit trading so some areas really with
standout performance.
GLENN SCHORR: You can't help us with the breakdown of what was -- it's going to be impossible going forward
but the breakdown between JPMorgan and Bear's contribution to the line in the quarter?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I wouldn't even think of it that way.
JAMIE DIMON, PRESIDENT, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: No contribution, very -- almost no contribution
FICC and Bear in the fourth -- this quarter.
GLENN SCHORR: That's a great quarter, then. And then maybe you both touched on a drop but maybe as a
follow-up is the -- how you balance your -- Jamie, your outlook commentary in the text which is realistic, I think
and how you grow, because I never know what the roots are in term of growth in cards and Retail at a time when
credit is starting to break down. Obviously you try to price for it but maybe just comment on that.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, when you look at the growth numbers in Retail, their revenues are up 15% and almost all
categories are growing, positive accounts, investments our mortgage share is up to 11%. While right now it isn't
very profitable. I have good hopes that will be far more profitable down the road, That's opening branches, hiring
salespeople and doing the things you always do. Some of the credit costs, you look at those at a sunk cost at this
point. Card, spend is up 7%, but the way to look at it a little bit, we're gaining share in consumer and small
business, albeit obviously sales themselves are down a little bit. So we're continuing to invest in marketing in that
business like any other business. We're not going to stop doing that because you have credit losses.
GLENN SCHORR: Got it. Okay. Thanks, guys.
OPERATOR: We go next to Guy Moszkowski with Merrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Good morning, Guy.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: I guess my first question is as you think of kind of a waterfall where you're looking at initially
11 or $12 billion of book value in Bear Stearns and you pay $1 billion and change for that, I know you've got a
page that looks a little bit like this in your appendix, I guess page 23, and you try to work down to the
extraordinary gains of zero, within all of these transaction-related costs that add up to the difference between
what their capital initially was and the lack of the gain or negative goodwill, how much of this -- these transaction
related costs that you talk about here are essentially reserves hung up on the balance sheet which over time, if
not used, could work their way into earnings?
JAMIE DIMON: I think, Guy, the way to look at it is very little. You know, there are some reserves to litigation and
taxes and things like that, but those are best estimates and ordinary course now. They'll be changed over time if
the expectations change and most of these severance and real estate and stuff like that related is actually costs.
We know the cost at this point. And then all the things related to the balance sheet, derisking, deleveraging,
conforming accounting, think of that as gone.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yeah. Those operating losses are already spent.
JAMIE DIMON: There's nothing else there.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: So derisking and deleveraging costs essentially are realized losses on disposition of the
portfolio?
Page 6 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE CAVANAGH: Realized or just marked down.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: To appropriate values.
MIKE CAVANAGH: At the rest of the company.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. So you don't want us to think that some portion of this is essentially like traditional
purchase accounting?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Absolutely not.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. That's important. Well, on the Home Equity side, changing topics here completely,
sounds like you've lowered the guidance of what we might expect a loss rate to look like by year-end to about 700
a quarter from $900 million a quarter and I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on the -- on what trend
lines it is that are giving you a little bit more comfort there.
JAMIE DIMON: All right. So one of the things Mike mentioned is that number has come down a couple hundred
million but the expected losses for subprime and prime is up by a couple hundred million so it's kind of a wash in
our eyes. It's just if you look at the latest numbers of delinquencies and roll rates, people go from 30 days, 60
days, 90 days, looks like it might be a little bit lower than it was before. It is very early. We do not know. It's June.
A lot of people could argue there's some seasonality in that. It's a little ray of sunshine which it's okay to grab onto
for now.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: There's other clouds in a couple other portfolios,.
JAMIE DIMON: That's absolutely correct.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: The point you made about actively hedging when you were talking on page 7 about some
of the various mortgage exposures, could you remind us what your monoline exposure looks like there and
whether any of your actions this quarter include any writedowns to that?
JAMIE DIMON: There were no write-downs this quarter to monoline. Maybe some modest marks, something like
that. I want to point out, we always showed the gross exposures. Some are hedged and some aren't hedged
because we always acknowledged that there are risks on both sides of that. There is no real perfect hedge as you
know. Some things like Alt-A really can't be hedged. The monolines, I think we told you in the past that for
JPMorgan alone, unless there's an actual default, the risks are not high. We took on some additional risk from
Bear Stearns. I would still make that statement, that the risks -- you're talking about, unless there's a major default
of one of the major ones, that they're really not that high. There could be marks up or down a couple hundred
million dollars. We're relying a little more than we're used to on the monolines for some of the things, because
Bear Stearns had some, but it's really not a major thing for us. Put it this way, the worst case isn't that bad.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: In the Investment Bank you mentioned the comp levels and comp ratio and they do seem
quite high, especially given that your result was actually quite strong, even with your charges, your year-over-year
Fixed Income results for example were actually up a little bit or, sorry, modestly down but it really in very good
shape, and so when I look at a 57% or so comp ratio, it seems very, very high. Maybe you could give us a sense
for what's driving that, that's "not-recurring" and where we ought to think about that ratio for the full year.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. So that ratio, obviously is high and I think it was a very healthy reserve relative to results.
Ongoing should probably look a little bit more normal. This is just reflective of how we think we need to pay
people, et cetera, but obviously was a fairly healthy addition this quarter. We don't want our people getting
depressed, put it that way. We want to keep morale up.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: I certainly applaud that sentiment. And then the final thing I'll ask you is on BASL2,
obviously the pure Investment Banks are showing us CSC, Basel II ratios at this point, obviously very difficult to
compare. What's your timetable for beginning to show us Basel II?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Guy, we're working on that now. As you know, we're under the different regulatory regime for
Basel II and examination in the investment banks and we're hoping to be the first major bank to be approved to go
into parallel run potentially as early as the fourth quarter of this year.
JAMIE DIMON: Our Basel II number as we currently see it would be very strong and I think if we use the same
rules and requirements that the Investment Banks use, it would be even stronger than that.

Page 7 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Maybe you could give us a sense for how it would compare to those 12%ish numbers that
we're seeing from those guys.
JAMIE DIMON: I challenge those numbers. I'm not sure that those investment banks are using true Basel II type
numbers many we don't know the detail. Ours would be very strong. We've just got to wait until it sorts out. You
saw recently the Feds and the SEC having an agreement to be sharing the stuff like that so there will be some
commonality down the road on how people do Basel II. I would question whether those Basel II numbers are the
same as ours.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Any particular area which you would question that?
JAMIE DIMON: No, just do your own analysis of the facts.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks, everybody. It was very helpful.
JAMIE DIMON: Thanks.
OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). We'll go to Mike Mayo with Deutsche Bank.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hey, Mike.
MIKE MAYO: Can you elaborate more, you mentioned Home Equity might be a little bit better than you expected.
You talked a lot about that at your Investor Day. But prime mortgage going from 48 basis points up to 91 basis
points linked quarter, can you just elaborate more on what you're seeing there and why?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike, it's exactly the same risk factors and all the other things. It's high CLTV, high LTV, it's
stated income, it's California, Florida, Arizona. I agree with you, they're staggering numbers. We have all the
politicians telling people it's okay not to pay your mortgages. It's just really hard for us to tell. Our current
expectations of those losses can triple from here. We're prepared for that and we will reserve for that
appropriately going forward.
MIKE MAYO: Prime mortgage losses could go from 91 basis points to 270 basis points?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes. We had $100 million a quarter and we could go to $300 million a quarter, next quarter. But if
you look at current trends, maybe we're being overly conservative, that could be $300 million a quarter sometime
in '09. For a while, not forever.
MIKE MAYO: That's a lot worse than you expected before. Now you're expecting Home Equity to be a little bit
better. How do you reconcile those two?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike, we don't. We can't.
MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then unrealized securities losses, what are those or how much non-agency MBS do you
have?
MIKE CAVANAGH: So our total OCI, deteriorated by about $1 billion in the quarter to be -- if that's the question,
Mike.
JAMIE DIMON: Non-agency MBS where?
MIKE MAYO: Firm-wide, just because it's declined in value.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. I think if you look at non-agency MBS, that is the number we're talking about at prime
which is held both in Retail and in Corporate. That is non-agency whole loans, mostly jumbo whole loans.
MIKE MAYO: How about securities?
JAMIE DIMON: Securities. Very little. Very little other securities which are non-agency. There's some, we buy and
sell securities all the time. We bought some credit card BBB loans, we bought some CLOs. We have a huge
portfolio we try to manage for total returns.
MIKE MAYO: You said continued lower Investment Banking results but on the other hand Bears' contribution
should get a lot better. What are you thinking about going forward that might be a drag?
Page 8 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: So Bear, we hope to see that it will be a positive contribution next quarter and build up to
sometime in '09 to $250 million a quarter. The underlying results are outstanding. I mean the trading results, the
investment banking results, really outstanding. You talk to clients, I think they would be very happy with us across
the board. But you have to look at the environment today and just assume it's going to continue for a while.
There's still assets we want to get down. There's lot of risk in holding syndicated loans and mortgages. The
values are much better because they've been written down so much. Mike mentioned the average leveraged loan
is now $0.80 to the dollar. In the environment like this we assume as we hedge stuff that we'll probably have to
pay a little bit more going forward. Eventually that will end and you'll get the real underlying results. The only other
thing in there, because we do have a lot of credit exposure which is very idiosyncratic. There could be great
reserves but you have some big surprise in a credit loan somewhere, that could cost us, and we should be
prepared for that, too.
MIKE MAYO: Mergers, I think you've been waiting your whole life for this environment or planning for it. So what
is the impediment to you pursuing a merger right now in the retail banking side? Is it the lack of willingness of
sellers and Boards? Is it the mark-to-market accounting? Is it the lack of your willingness?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the mark-to-market accounting makes it harder for a bank to buy a bank because you have
to basically write the loans to a market value but it does not make it impossible. Certainly not for us. The right
circumstances, we're sure we could raise the capital we need to do it but it does make it harder. This is a good
environment, I'm speaking generically now, I would expect this will lead to more mergers over time. Nothing is
impeding us. But it's not just up to us, as you pointed out.
MIKE MAYO: If you close a deal by year-end, do you still have to do the mark-to-market accounting on the loan
book?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes. That's effective immediately, right.
MIKE CAVANAGH: I believe so.
JAMIE DIMON: It's effective immediately and it's effective from now going forward, unless it gets changed. We
don't know if it will be changed or not. We wouldn't do a deal or not do a deal based on pure accounting deal. We
would do or not do a deal based on how much value we thought it adds to shareholders. Just makes it harder,
that's all.
MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: We'll go next to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Just two questions. One on the Bear Stearns
assets, you did sell down a dramatic amount relative to prior expectations. How much more do you anticipate
reducing from here?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, it's not -- I wouldn't look at it like they're Bear Stearns assets anymore because these books
are combined and run by a consolidated asset team at this point. But if you look at the assets that Mike spoke
about, mortgages, leveraged finance and obviously some other categories we didn't spend time on. They'll be
coming down over time.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. As you executed that sell-down of assets, did that help the trading line? I'm wondering
if there was any gain on sale given where rates had gone during the quarter that may have helped out that line at
all.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, I would think of that as large liquidation of the large contributor, consuming the book
value that we're talking about earlier.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Between write-downs and operating losses as we deleveraged.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then lastly, I just wonder how you're thinking about the dividend policy, given the
very strong capital ratio that you ended the quarter at and well above I think expectations.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, we applaud our friends at Wells Fargo but we don't have quite that much guts going
forward. We're not going to increase dividend until we see clear daylight.
Page 9 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: We'll go next with William Tanona with Goldman Sachs.
WILLIAM TANONA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, guys. Just help me understand the kind of
decision to increase the equity in the Investment Bank by $4 billion. If you look at Bear Stearns prior to this deal,
the equity was at $11.5 billion we all know they were far greater levered. Looking at how much it took risk
weighted assets down, 45%, if you keep the same kind of leverage ratio, this kind of implies $6.5 billion of equity.
Trying to understand why you only allocated the $4 billion to the Investment Bank.
MIKE CAVANAGH: We took equity up in anticipation somewhat of all this by a billion in the first quarter from $21B
to $22B. Remember also that our allocated equity is really just allocated common equity. So when you look at
pure comparisons, you've got to add a share of the non-common equity component of the firm's capital to get to
the real kind of denominator when you do some of the calculations that are often done. So we go through all that
and I guess the one last thing to remember is that when we do our own internal compares of capitalization to get
to sort of stand-alone single A type of ratings, you've got to parse through versus our competitors that hold asset
management businesses, private equity businesses, et cetera, inside their overall units when doing a comparison
of our Investment Banking units to those. You have some parsing to do to arrive at what real pure comparisons
look like. On all that kind of basis, I think we get to a place that we feel like is appropriate and we continue to
watch it and look beyond just the nominal levels and look at some risk weightings in our sense of where risk really
sits and compare to economic calculations as well.
JAMIE DIMON: Mike mentioned our Tier 1 has a much higher component of common equity which you could say
is high quality Tier 1. But across the board, we try to be conservative. I always talk about quality of capital which
is maybe a peculiar concept. Loan loss reserves are very strong. We're massively over reserved by a couple
billion dollars in our pension plans. We got out of the auto leasing business. Our card I/O is very strong. It's really
across the board. You can look at all these things and call us conservative. We believe in maintaining a strong
balance sheet on all counts, not just strong Tier 1 but all these other things I just mentioned.
WILLIAM TANONA: I guess the follow-up question, and I've got to go back to it because I can't let you off that
easy, but helping us reconcile the commentary on prime mortgages, versus home equity. I know you can't
obviously comment about the industry as a whole or choose not to but in terms of your individual portfolio, what is
it about your prime mortgage portfolio that you expect losses could potentially triple from here? Is it just the
segments that you're in? Just trying to understand and reconcile that as well as the commentary between the
home equity.
JAMIE DIMON: You saw subprime go first and then on a slight lag, you saw home equity go, and now in a lag,
you're seeing prime go. It's exactly the same loss factors. Remember, the components of where we are in the
states and all stuff like that is very different and we started doing more jumbos in '07, so a lot of that is -- part of
that is '07 vintage which I think I told you the time we're going to do and grow balance sheet and gain share and
we were wrong. We obviously wish we hadn't done it. When you adjust for all of these things, vintages, CLTVs,
stated income, where it's done, that's what we're seeing. It's very early in the loss curve, so the $300 million is just
kind of rolling forward and projecting. We hope it doesn't go there but it easily could. It's where things could go,
depending on a set of views internally.
WILLIAM TANONA: I mean, I guess I understand that. Just as you think about them potentially going up to $300
or $250 million (corrected by company after the call) or whatever it may be and given your new guidance on home
equity which would also put that at $300 million, tough to imagine how that home equity number could be as low if
you do really expect prime to potentially double or triple from here.
JAMIE DIMON: Different locations, different vintages. I mean, we understand your point. We disagree. It's that
prime looks terrible and we're sorry. We can say it eight times. It looks terrible.
WILLIAM TANONA: Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Hi, Jeff.
JEFF HARTE: Sticking with the prime mortgage for a second, when you talk about deterioration, I look at your
prime mortgage portfolio and it's dominated by jumbo and Alt-A. Can you give us any color as to how the jumbo
Page 10 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

bucket is performing versus the Alt-A versus what I'll call other prime mortgages that don't make up as big a part
of your portfolio?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know the number offhand, Mike.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No. I mean, the way I might explain it, Jeff, is we significantly ratcheted back our underwriting
standards in prime to be fundamentally much more of a traditional underwriting standard, much less stated
income, LTVs from here that are targeted to not be in excess of the expected home price in given areas. So we're
in some parts of the country, max LTV currently at 65%, et cetera, et cetera. When you layer that through and
look at our portfolio split between the balances that we would continue to underwrite on our given standards and
those that we wouldn't, for what we would continue to underwrite, the existing credit performance is substantially
lower than this overall level of 91 basis points of loss. So we feel confident that our current underwriting is wholly
different than sort of the pig and the stick that we have working through of what has been already underwritten,
with the risk factors that Jamie described. I think one of the drivers is home prices in some of the areas that we
put on loans has come down so substantially that where we were in situations of relying on, or rather, because it
was prime not relying on mortgage insurance and home values have dropped even below 80% original LTVs,
we're taking losses. Those are some of the dynamics.
JAMIE DIMON: I should point out, what we see if home Equity goes where we're going it will be north of $300
million (corrected by company after the call) by a little bit and the prime will be $220, $230, $240 million. It may be
temporary. It may hit that and come down real quickly.
JEFF HARTE: Is prime going to that level of function over three quarters of your portfolio being jumbo and Alt-A,
versus the overall what you would call housing market?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It may be. It's all we have. We don't have a great compare point, because that's the
preponderance of what we have in the portfolio.
JEFF HARTE: From what you have in the portfolio, are you seeing better performance away from jumbos?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Mostly have jumbos, so that's my point. I don't have a good compare point inside of the
portfolio because that's the preponderance of what we have actually on balance sheet, conforming stuff obviously
goes straight out the door to the agencies and doesn't stay on balance sheet.
JAMIE DIMON: I think jumbo is more proportionately California too so that probably has a lot to do with that.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. And on the commercial side of the business, we're seeing what's still pretty good loan
growth, very nice loan growth. We're seeing really good credit quality, as far as charge-offs go but we're seeing
you build reserves. Can you talk a little bit about whether that reserve build is in anticipation of troubles in
commercial or just a function of how quickly you're growing your balances?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I'd say it's two pieces. We've been cautious related to commercial real estate as we talked
about in the Commercial Bank. But when you look at some small portion of the portfolio related to home builders,
you saw in the first quarter really the more significant additions to reserves in the quarter and that's really, you
know, as time goes by in certain portions of the portfolio go under stress, they get downgraded and require
incremental reserves. In aggregate, we feel confident about where we're putting on growth from here but it's just
the dynamics of degradation in certain sectors, particularly anything related to home builders.
JAMIE DIMON: By the way, the portfolio, and thanks for pointing it out, is very strong. I would think you should
expect non-performers to go up. We have never seen environments like this where it doesn't happen even in a
strong portfolio, and all of the growth, we really are comfortable. We see enormous opportunities to grow it and
feel kind of like Wells Fargo felt about it. There's a lot of clients. They need loans. They want to grow. A lot of
municipalities. A lot of the growth is coming from government and not-for-profit which is generally pretty secure. It
almost has to deteriorate in an environment like this.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: We'll go next to Meredith Whitney with Oppenheimer.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Good morning, I'm out of gas in terms of home equity and
prime questions.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.
Page 11 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: I just wanted to ask a separate question which is on uninsured deposits and any kind of
market share moves and obviously important moves within that sector, a $2.5 trillion sector. And your thoughts of
visuals of IndyMac and what's going on there, please.
JAMIE DIMON: Thanks for pointing out that our deposits in assets under management, up 25%, TSS up 15%
(corrected by company after the call) and Commercial Bank up 19% which shows you kind of the power of this
franchise over time, and we worry about us. I think there are going to be issues. I think you heard a lot of
regulators talk about some of the issues with banks out there which may have more problems in their commercial
real estate and that will cause obviously some deposits to be concerned about it. But we think we'll be a
beneficiary of all that.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Anything in terms of just an industry comment?
JAMIE DIMON: You know, it's different all over the place, the competition for deposits right now. We're not really
chasing it. You're not seeing growth in our deposits because we're chasing them. I think some of the people have
really raised rates because they need them.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Do you see in terms of any type of Northern Rock issue where people are actively
splitting accounts or anything like that so you're starting to see how long the lag would be where we would start to
see real market share moves?
JAMIE DIMON: Honestly, we don't know the answer to that question.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: We'll go next to John McDonald with AllianceBernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Hey, John.
JOHN MCDONALD: Just two questions on potential accounting changes. Was wondering how much of a concern
potential changes in the QSPEs might be in terms of impact on capital ratios and also the potential changes in the
credit card billing practices.
JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, so first of all, we don't think the change in accounting -- remember, we're talking about
2009, 2010, will be consequential at all. It could put hundreds of billions of dollars back on the balance sheet. It's
really not clear. We may show you a lot more of this next time because it's come up many times but we analyze it,
we don't think it's that big of a deal for us. We understand the regulators' points. It is putting too much fear in
people's eyes that is a little bit unjustified. We already got rid of double cycle billing and we already got rid of us
default pricing. Or off-us repricing at all. The new changes coming up could have an impact. It could be material.
A lot of it will with one shot, just one time, it will hurt you for a year or something like that and -- but it really
remains to be seen how it gets implemented and really how competitors react. You change prices, all the
competitors react and do something about it in the first place. The interchange thing could also be dramatic
though I would be surprised if you have pricing controls like that in the United States of America.
JOHN MCDONALD: The margin hit that you saw in credit card this quarter, you mentioned the credit quality's
impacting it. Do you have any flexibility? Typically card issuers have some flexibility to raise pricing. Should that
flow through the next couple quarters as you reprice folks.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That would be our hope, John. Potentially some response on our part to what we're seeing
could be a factor in the second half of the year.
JOHN MCDONALD: All right. Thanks, guys.
OPERATOR: We'll take our final question from Ron Mandle with GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. Actually most of my questions have been answered but in regard to
FAS 140. I guess your comment about not being that worried, you have $75 billion or so of off-balance sheet
managed credit card loans, if that came back on, that would be about -- which is I think is highly likely, would be
about 50 basis points or so of capital.
JAMIE DIMON: It would be $50 billion of risk weighted assets.
Page 12 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE CAVANAGH: Correct. So clearly, Ron, just remember, that is the accounting effect that we would agree
that it's probably likely that credit card QSPEs come on so that's $70 billion and maybe something less than $50
billion RWA come on, which obviously will eat into Tier 1 capital ratio but the regulators get to take their view
themselves and not necessarily accounting on how they'll handle all that. We don't know enough yet how that's all
going to play out. If that were the outcome, we could handle it, obviously.
JAMIE DIMON: We're retaining a lot of capital. We retain capital even at these low earning numbers. We kind of
expect that to continue. We're retaining capital. You're talking about '09, 2010, 2011, so we'd be in very good
shape with that.
RON MANDLE: Have your conversations with regulators indicated they will take a different approach than the
accounting?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's too early to tell.
JAMIE DIMON: If you go through what I would consider the worst case, it's still not that big a deal. It hurts your
Tier 1 ratios by 50 basis points and other basis points. Who cares. At one point it's another number on a piece of
paper and we've got plenty of ways to raise capital or add preferred stock or reduce asset growth or something
like that, or recalibrate our capital targets. Nothing fundamentally is changing as accounting changes, right?
RON MANDLE: Right. And are there any third party vehicles that you manage or third party related assets where
you manage the conduit that might come on the balance sheet?
MIKE CAVANAGH: The conduit can go on the balance sheet but that would barely impact capital because
already included in capital On a risk weighted basis, there's a couple hundred billion of other forms of
securitizations totaling up that we can take you through at a future time. There's plenty of business actions that
we would see taking to make adjustments to likely make any impact from any of that very manageable. Some of
that would be rationally. We've got absolutely no risk. It wouldn't matter. Remember, we have a very, very
forward-looking view of capital. So we already project our capital throughout '09 and we already know that we can
handle all that stuff easily. Might change what we do elsewhere. We already know we can handle that easily.
RON MANDLE: I just had one last question. I guess I can't let go of the home equity. At one point you indicated
the amount of home equity loans as a percentage that was over 90% current loan to value. If you said it was 22%,
I'm wondering if you have an update.
JAMIE DIMON: That was over 100%. They were going into negative equity. I think the number -- that was a
forecast, right.
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think it was 10% in negative equity at the beginning. Going to potentially 20%. So we're
somewhere along that spectrum of 10% going to 20% in negative Equity. We can confirm that for you.
JAMIE DIMON: We can't really project how people will act who go negative equity who have been living in the
home for three or four years. Because you're getting different vintages now. The kids have been there, the kids
are going to school. It's a different thing than maybe people bought their homes on 100% LTV in 2006, 2007.
That's possibly why you're seeing some improvement there.
RON MANDLE: You don't have enough data to say how the people with no equity are going to act.
JAMIE DIMON: We're assuming they won't act well.
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's possible they aren't as bad as we might expect.
RON MANDLE: Okay. Thanks very much.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Okay. I think that's it. Thank you everybody for joining us. Look forward to next quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: Take care. Thank you.
OPERATOR: That does conclude today's JPMorgan Chase and company second quarter earnings conference
call. Thank you for your participation. Have a good day.
EDITOR: Disclaimer - The information contained in this transcript is current only as of the date the presentation
was made. JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update any information contained in this presentation to
Page 13 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of this presentation. Accordingly, the
information contained in this presentation may be superseded by more current information.
Please refer to JPMorgan Chase's more current filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are
available elsewhere on this website.
19
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020080724e47h000ba

Page 14 of 14 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

