Q2 2010 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
13,339 words
15 July 2010
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase's second quarter 2010
earnings call. This call is being recorded. Your line will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live to
the presentation. Please stand by. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman
and CEO, Jamie Dimon, Chief Financial Officer, Doug Braunstein, and Mike Cavanagh, CEO of Treasury and
Security Services. Mr. Dimon, please go ahead.
JAMES DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you very much and folks, thank you for
getting up this early hour to spend a little time with us. I just want to open real quickly to tell you this is Mike
Cavanagh's last turn doing the investor relations call, so this is kind of his swan song, but I want you all to know
what a great job we think he has done in a large financial Company in a very tough time, earning respect, getting
the numbers, making sure we try to do things right, accurately disclosing things, maintaining good relations with
all of you. Congratulations out to Mike. I'm excited about his new challenge. You'll still be hearing from him in the
future, just not on this call.
And also, if you welcome Doug Braunstein. I don't know how many of you know him. You'll have plenty of time to
get to know him in the future. Previously, he was running the Investment Banking USA division, including the
Bankers and Equity Debt derivative capital markets, and an extraordinarily talented individual and he's obviously
-- he's been through the process with us the last two weeks, so he's sitting here to listen to how it goes, but I
know he looks forward to seeing you, and I know he will be a great CFO of JPMorgan Chase.
I'm going to hand the call back over to Mike, and when he's done, we'll be taking some questions.
MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, Jamie. I just want to say thanks to the entire
finance team at JPMorgan Chase. They've done great for me and they're going to do a great job for Doug, and
welcome, Doug, and congrats from me, as well.
I'm going to start and go through the usual slide deck that we've got here, so if you start on page one here,
second quarter highlights. As you've seen, we earned $4.8 billion after tax, earnings per share of $1.09 on
revenues of about $26 billion in the quarter. We flagged for you the two big significant items and most of the rest
of the stuff we'll get into washes itself out throughout the rest of the numbers.
But two big items, reduction to loan loss allowance of about $1.5 billion, or $0.36 after tax. I'll cover this up front
once. It's really coming in three places throughout the firm. First is in the Investment Bank where we had about
$350 million pretax reserve release. That's really the same reason as last quarter. Loan paydowns and loan
sales, freeing up reserves.
In the Credit Card business then, you'll see the lower current losses leading to lower estimates for future losses
and that leads to a reduction in reserves of about $1.5 billion there. And then finally, in our Commercial Bank,
about $400 million pretax of reserve release, which is just related to the periodic but normal refinements to our
credit loss estimates in that business. So those three places are what's driving the reduction to loan loss
allowance.
We still end the quarter with $37 billion of loan loss reserves and more than 5% loan loss coverage. So feel very
good, in very good shape on that score. The other items, the UK bonus tax, we booked about $550 million after
tax, mostly running through the comp line, all running through the compensation line, mostly in our Investment
Bank. So those two items together, about $0.22 worth of net positive earnings, so about $0.87 away from that.
Page 1 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Broad characterization of those results is that most of our businesses performed pretty solidly as you'll see when
we go through the numbers. And of particular note is the decline in levels of actual charge-off losses in our
consumer businesses, both Retail and Credit Card from prior quarters. Capital strength continued to be very
strong, strong balance sheet continues and we'll get to that towards the end.
So now flipping on slide two, I'm just going to skip, it's everything I just said, and now let's go to the Investment
Bank on slide three. So there you see circled number, profits of $1.4 billion in the Investment Bank. I've already
commented on the credit cost line, which was driven by the reserve release. So starting with revenues, you see
total revenues of $6.3 billion in the quarter for the Investment Bank. So starting with Investment Banking fees, as
you can see and read for yourself, we continue to be number one ranked year-to-date in Investment Banking fee
revenue. And that amounts to $1.4 billion for the quarter, which is down from a very strong and capital issuance
heavy quarter in the prior year.
Moving to the markets businesses, I'd say generally speaking, that we are back to sort of pre-crisis levels for
spreads, and that combined with lower levels of client activity as a general matter throughout the quarter on
average is the broad backdrop. But specifically Fixed Income Markets, you see we had revenues of $3.6 billion,
down from last quarter and last year and that's the main areas for those declines from prior periods, was in credit
markets businesses, rates and commodities areas. Included in the fixed income revenues of $3.6 billion, is about
$400 million positive of benefit from DVA, or credit spread tightening on structured notes.
Next, in Equity Markets, $1 billion of revenue, and that included $200 million of DVA, not much more to really
highlight there, nor in credit portfolio revenues. Just on expenses, $4.5 billion, remember that includes the UK
bonus tax. When you back that out, the comp to revenue ratio in the quarter was about 37%. So that's it for the
Investment Bank.
Moving on now to Retail, page four gives you what drives the P&L that we're going to see on the next slide. I'll just
say Retail Banking, top portion of the page, deposit taking business, Retail branches, you can read these for
yourself but you continue to see healthy underlying trends in the growth of the business, whether it's stabilization
and growth in deposits, remember, we've been running off high cost deposits so the net growth here we feel good
about and continued growth in other underlying trends. Middle of the page, other consumer lending and mortgage
banking originations, total of about $38 billion worth of loan originations in the quarter. That's part of $156 billion
of loan originations across the whole business, including middle markets, small business, in the broader
Company. So we continue to be originating credit for our clients at very good levels. And I'll talk about real estate
portfolios at the bottom in a second.
If you flip to slide five, you have the P&L for the Retail business. I'll walk you down the circled numbers on the left.
So in total, Retail, the sum of all of this division made $1.042 billion of net income in the quarter. Moving down to
the next circled box you see the Retail Banking side which I just commented on in the prior page earned $914
million in the quarter. I'll let you read the commentary in the press release and to the right here, it's pretty
straightforward, what's going on in the business. And healthy trends there.
The next piece is the ongoing production, origination of mortgage loans, and other consumer lending, including
auto. And there you see we had profits circled of $364 million. Again, I'll let you read what's going on there, and
just point out that the $2 billion of revenues in that space continues to have a drag on it of loan repurchase
expense and reserving that's counter revenue there. That's a little higher than it was last quarter, flattish to where
we were in the fourth quarter of last year, but continues to be in our level of expectations, but obviously continued
uncertainty as to how that continues to progress.
And then finally at the bottom, you have the real estate portfolio balances. Obviously this is driven heavily by our
actual credit cost and prior period reserving. No reserving at all this quarter to the positive or the negative. Just
lower credit costs that I'll cover. Let's go to that. That was a loss in aggregate of $236 million.
If you flip the slide to slide six, you pick up the circled numbers on the left and the commentary then in the upper
right is that you see the decline, substantial decline in the second quarter versus last quarter and a year ago, in
actual current quarter charge-offs and that's on the back of the improved delinquency, early bucket delinquencies
that we've been commenting on for the past several quarters continuing to roll through, as well as moderating
levels of losses where we do have defaults. So lesser levels of, or moderating levels of loss severity.
What we would say is that those trends appear to be stable from beginning of quarter to end of quarter. So it's not
clear that we can count on continued improvement from these levels. But in terms of our outlook, at these levels
of delinquency and loss severity, if we hold where we are, we would expect to see our quarterly losses run at the
kind of levels that you see in the outlook box in the middle of the right-hand side. So at or below $1 billion for
home equity, $400 million for prime mortgage and $400 million or so per quarter for subprime mortgage.
Page 2 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

That's obviously a change from the outlook we'd previously given which you could think of -- we used to guide
towards where we could see losses progressing upwards in prior quarters, as we talked about this guidance, now
we're sort of giving you more of an outlook based upon a static level of delinquencies and loss severities running
at these kind of numbers from here. So clearly an improved underlying loss picture here. But still cautious and
still, again, no changes in our reserve levels in that business.
Moving on to Card Services on slide seven. So here you see we had profits circled on the left, profits of $343
million. Credit costs being the big story. So I've already mentioned the $1.5 billion pretax reduction in loan loss
reserves. So let's just focus on the actual charge-offs in the quarter.
Which you see circled number on the left, again, the 9.02% charge-off rate in the quarter for the Chase portfolios,
this is ex-WaMu, an improvement from last quarter, you see the printed number last quarter was 10.54%. But
recall, that was inflated due to a payment holiday that I won't go into. But on a real basis, we dropped about 90
basis points in losses quarter-over-quarter. And as you'll see, where we get to the outlook, we could see that
improving again by maybe another 50 basis points to 8.5% charge-off rate plus or minus for the Chase portfolios
as we look into next quarter would be our best guess, given the level of trends we're seeing.
On the revenue side, $4.2 billion of revenue. That's down year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter. And very
similar trends to what we -- dynamics that we have talked about in the past. So you've got lower outstandings on
lower sales, higher level of -- the level of charge-offs we've experienced, less balance transfer activity as well as
us running off the Washington Mutual portfolio and now we're starting to get some impact of the Card Act
legislation, which is probably about 25% of it in our run rate in this quarter on the revenue side.
The next three businesses, Commercial Bank, TSS and Asset Management, I'll cover pretty quickly. They are, the
dynamics of this business is very similar to what they've been in the past, so I'll just flip through these very quickly
but hit a few items. On the Commercial Bank it's $693 million, that includes the $400 million reserve release, ex
that, that's $450 million or so after tax. That's based upon the $1.5 billion level of revenues you see here, which
continues to be strong. The dynamic I guess I'd point out, if you look at the key statistics, you see end of period
loans and leases, the circled number $96 billion of loans and leases, flattish to where we were last quarter. And
down from a year ago. So we continue to see maybe some signs of activity on the horizon but not yet translating
into actual increase in loan demand and continued low level of utilization in the low 30%, 30, 32% utilization rates
against the committed lines we have to our clients in this space.
Next business, Treasury and Security Services, profits of $292 million in the quarter. Again, general environment
of low rates putting pressure on revenues here, but in the second quarter, we actually get a seasonal benefit
embedded in it and you can see it in the Security Services side from securities lending, particularly coming out of
Europe in the second quarter of the year.
Finally, on the business side, Asset Management on slide 10, $391 million of net income, strong assets under
management and revenues related to that on continued strong investment performance which you can read on
the right-hand side. The one thing I'd point out as you can see from the commentary on flows in the middle of the
right-hand side, that we're seeing outflows in sort of low spread, low risk, low return liquidity products, $29 billion,
and $126 billion for the last quarter and last year, and that's partially offset on the flow side with flows back into
longer term bond and equity type of funds.
Slide 11, Corporate and Private Equity, you see Private Equity is very modest, modest activity in the quarter, $75
million of revenues, translating into $11 million of after-tax profits. So the big item being the Corporate segment
itself. You see $642 million of profits in the quarter. I'll just jump to where I think that's going.
That, for a host of reasons, think of that as a number that in future quarters, coming quarters could trend towards
$300 million plus or minus but obviously there's lumpy items that occur any one quarter to the next. So in this
particular quarter, we had a level of securities gains coming out of our investment portfolio of about $900 million,
and then on the expense side, we had some higher litigation expenses booked in the quarter. So those numbers
are washing through, together with just the over the quarter a higher level than normal of -- than what we'll see on
an ongoing basis of portfolio size throwing off net interest income.
So moving to capital on slide 12, you see Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 Common capital grew in the quarter, $131
billion to $137 billion, and $104 billion to $108 billion, helping drive with flattish risk weighted assets and total
assets a little bit of a decline. You see Tier 1 capital ratios and Tier 1 Common very, very, very strong at 12.1%
and 9.6%. I already commented on the very strong level of credit reserves and I will just point out that at the tail
end of last quarter, carrying through to yesterday we bought back about $500 million worth of stock in the past
several weeks.
Page 3 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

So finally, on the quarter outlook, looking ahead, on page 13, I think I covered well everything related to the Home
Lending guidance on the left-hand side, so I'll skip that. I will just give you an update in terms of where we are on
the overdraft fees in Retail. You see that we are just updating our estimates there of the net income impact.
Previously on an after-tax basis, $500 million, plus or minus. Now, a little bit higher, $700 million, plus or minus, is
our best current estimate of what the full impact when it ramps in will be. Only about half of that is currently
running through our numbers.
On the Credit Card side, I commented on the declining balances for a host of reasons, and you can see and read
for yourself that we expect that to continue for the same reasons that we're currently seeing, including the runoff
of the WaMu portfolio, and some legacy low yield balances in our outstandings. Credit losses, already
commented on the 8.5% plus or minus charge-off rate for Chase and then on the Card Act side, the total impact
that we're expecting to see would be about $750 million, plus or minus. Now that now includes our view of what
the final piece of legislation, which was around what defines reasonable and proportionate fees, is a new item, but
I think all in we're at $750 million, plus or minus. We used to be at $500 million to $750 million without that item,
but now with that in, think about us as being at $750 million plus or minus and I already commented on the level
of expected profits in Corporate.
So I guess the final thing I'll comment on is regulatory reform on slide 14. We're not going to say too much about
this today, other than these comments, given that we're getting the vote today and there's still even past today's
voting a lot to be defined by regulators and many uncertainties that makes it difficult to talk about this with
precision, but let me just run through what's on this page, which is that we do recognize, and we've talked a lot
about the many positive aspects that are going to be coming as part of the pending regulation. We're happy to
see, and always run ourselves this way, higher capital and liquidity requirements across the financial sector is a
good thing.
Resolution authority, we lived through Bear Stearns and ourselves saw the problems of not having power to
resolve institutions more broadly than just the traditional powers over Commercial Banks, so we welcome that.
And we think it's a very good idea to have system-wide risk oversight so there's clearly some pluses that we look
forward to benefiting from on the other side of regulation. Definitely have to point out, though, that there are some
challenges that come along with where we sit which is obviously what I already said, that there's many
uncertainties remain.
So while we expect to get this legislation today, there remain hundreds of rules to be written, and ongoing
interpretations that will really define what this looks like. There's a need to get global coordination obviously, for
this to be well-executed and that's still to be done. And then of course, with anything of this kind of magnitude,
with the ongoing interpretations that are going to come, none of us really know what unknown consequences are
going to come for our business activities and our clients. So that's on the challenges side.
But would sum up that it's going to have a significant impact on many of our businesses. We're spending a lot of
time thinking about this, and particularly about how it's going to affect our clients, because as you know, we're a
very client-focused set of businesses so a lot of energy is going in to make sure we understand clearly what it's
going to mean for those clients, and going back to my first point, very hard here to with any kind of real certainty
speak to you about what the impact could be here, because the first point is that this is all going to phase in over
time. So it's not like the potential financial impacts are going to be here tomorrow.
This will gradually affect our results to whatever degree it does. What effect it does have is clearly going to be a
result of how clients respond in terms of what they choose to -- what services they avail themselves of and at
what volume levels, so that's a little bit of guesswork at this stage, and of course whatever impacts there are
going to be is going to be in part mitigated at least through adjustments to business models or pricing of products
and services, and in many cases in our businesses, the benefit that our shareholders will get back by having
capital released as a result of some of the changes in this legislation. So all more to come as we understand
more, we'll be as clear as we can be. I'd just remind everybody that for JPMorgan Chase in particular, we've
always thought about running ourselves as a client focused business, not heavily dependent on proprietary
activities, which is a main thrust of the ideas behind the legislation we are not at all disturbed by.
In our client businesses, for investing for our clients, we've always had a clear separation between what we do as
a fiduciary for our clients and where we run risk with the firm's own capital so that's another thought in the
legislation that we're very comfortable with. Clearly, you all know us as being highly focused on running a strong
balance sheet with extremely strong liquidity and strong capital base, and, again, finally, there's the strength of
the fundamentals of the various businesses we choose to compete in, and the diversified earnings power and
margins that we get out of the businesses by running them well, is part of what allowed us to really run our way
through the crisis and never have a losing quarter. That's how we think about it is from here, we're just going to
Page 4 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

continue to do what we've always done which is commit ourselves to implementing this regulation in a way that
protects our clients and protects the competitiveness of the US financial system and JPMorgan Chase in doing
that.
And I will speak for us that we've got hundreds of work streams around this place already engaged deeply in
understanding and looking to implement this legislation in a thoughtful way that I just described. So not to say we
will have plenty more to discuss as time goes by in legislation once we have finer points and better details to
provide, but these are our thoughts for today on that score, so with that, why don't we go to questions?
OPERATOR: Your first question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Banc of America-Merrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hey, Guy.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: First of all, I just wanted to say, Mike, obviously Jamie said it all, but you've done such a
terrific job for all of us. I just want to thank you for that, over the many years at this point.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Thanks, Guy.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: There's no doubt that the decline in losses and delinquencies and the much lower expected
loss guidance on the home mortgage side are a really big positive, but we know also that foreclosures have been
slowed by various modification programs and forbearance programs, and anecdotally, we still hear about people
that are pretty delinquent that have yet to receive a foreclosure notice. Is that something you're not worried about
given that decline in the mortgage loss guidance. How should we think about all that?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I would say, Guy, as we talked about before, we do worry about those thoughts but make
sure that when we actually take account of our current period charge-offs and our expectations for future losses,
we are trying to be very cognizant of delays in courtroom filings and backlogs in courts and so forth to make sure
that we're keeping current in our losses and our forecasted losses the best we can. So we're constantly
concerned and try to reflect it in what we do.
JAMES DIMON: Let me reiterate. We take the charge-offs on things that are delayed in foreclosure, and we do
believe there's a little bit of a backlog due to foreclosures. We don't think it's a wave, it's a mountain. It's already
been a high level. It came down a little bit. We do believe it's going to go up a little bit, but it's not going to be two
times what we've been experiencing.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: That's helpful. Thanks for that. Can I just ask on the rest of the warranties issue, you did
talk about repurchases as affecting the quarter a little bit. Can I just asked if you received a subpoena from FHFA
and if you could give us a sense for your stance at this point on these issues? I remember that last quarter you
added over $2 billion to a reserve. Can we assume that that was built on an already significant reserve?
JAMES DIMON: Yes, so we did get a subpoena for information which I believe went to all the major broker
dealers. We're not going to be regularly reporting on subpoenas and stuff like that. And we do try to take account
and repurchase reserve. They're still running kind of high, so we have a reserve, we have expenses and we think
-- there are reasons to think it might start coming down by early next year. Because if you look at the vintages and
the ages and the timing, this may be a little bit lagged too, but they could very well come down.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And the final question I have for you is regarding the revised guidance on the Card Act and
NSF/OD, obviously the changes in the regulation mean that the few are no longer subsidizing a lot of products
like free checking and the like for everybody else, and you've given us an assessment of the impact, but should
we assume that those are still static analyses and that you haven't factored in there some of the repricing that you
might do to kind of spread the cost of services more?
JAMES DIMON: Yes.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: So over time, there's probably some mitigation to those numbers?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Page 5 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Good morning.
MATT O'CONNOR: I think you guys have been more upfront than some banks about the net interest income
pressure out there from running off loans from the trade but I think it's fair to say that the Q2 NIM came in lower
than expected, lower than what I had had. I was wondering if you could talk about what drove this decline and
what you think the outcome is on net interest income dollars.
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think, Matt, it's in part -- I've got to hold aside what goes on in the trading businesses, so
holding that aside, the level of spread is down just a touch and probably comes down a touch again, so it's really
the volume declines across the consumer portfolios that will put a little bit of continued downward pressure on
NIM dollars looking ahead.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Much more modest than the $1 billion decline we saw this quarter?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, I think some of that was changes in the investment portfolio as well.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. That's largely behind you.
JAMES DIMON: No, no, it's going to continue. In that Corporate line that Mike said is going to come down to $300
million, that's coming -- a big chunk of that is NIM coming down a little bit as we reposition the portfolio.
MIKE CAVANAGH: The run rate at the end of the quarter is lower as a result of the sales that generated $1 billion
or so, $900 million of gains. Think of that as pulling forward some of that NIM.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, so the corporate, you're going to write down, obviously the Investment Bank is always
dependent on what's going on in trading. Excluding those areas, more modest pressure than what we saw this
quarter.
JAMES DIMON: Credit Card balances will come down and there's still runoff mostly in the mortgage related areas
in WaMu and JPMorgan Chase. And we've given you those numbers before. You can just build them right into
your calculations.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay.
JAMES DIMON: Remember, that also frees up capital so there's a flip side to that.
MATT O'CONNOR: That's actually where I was going to go next. With the balance sheet coming down, and
revenue environment up, you've already got a lot of capital. It's going to build. You bought back some stock. I
think on a net basis, the shares were unchanged. Is there opportunity to bring down the share count on a net
basis or is that more about -- ?
JAMES DIMON: Look, I think it's significant that we started to buy back some stock, which means we are a value
investor, so think of us that we're making a couple statements here and obviously it's one way to manage the
capital base and reinvest money on behalf of our shareholders.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. There's no like regulatory -- you bought back stock, but the net share count didn't
decline.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's right.
MATT O'CONNOR: Still have the ability to net buyback stock?
JAMES DIMON: We might. We like there's a discipline to buy back what we issue. A lot of what we issue is
restricted stock to employees, which vests over time, so every quarter more of it shows up in share count so a lot
of things affect share count. We as a discipline like to buy back at least what we issue.
MATT O'CONNOR: All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi. Mike, wondering if you could give any color on what
changed on the NSF/OD impact of your estimate there?
Page 6 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE CAVANAGH: It's really just a refinements as we're getting further down the road of opt-in levels, is the main
driver, a little bit less than we had originally forecast opting in and that's driving the number for impact a little
higher.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Just to follow up on the NIM, in the Card business, the NIM is down, are the changes
in the Card Act already reflected in the card NIM? The lack of the ability to reprice, is that already in there, or
could there be more NIM pressure in Card from that.
MIKE CAVANAGH: There will be more pressure in aggregate on the results in Card because we're only about
25% of the way. I've got to come back to you on how much that will be through NIM versus other portions of
revenue.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. But that impact -MIKE CAVANAGH: Probably more to come but the split of where it will sit NIM versus other revenues, we can
come back and give you better clarity.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. That's embedded in the outlook you gave?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then any comments about potential improvement in line utilizations, just a
precursor to any improvement in loan demands?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Seeing activities, again, same as last quarter, strengthen what's going on in small business
lending, double the level that we originated last year. Middle market and commercial is flat. I'd say it's similar to
what we said before, plenty of dialogue going on between our clients and our bankers, as folks get themselves
ready to take some actions, but just not yet really manifesting itself in drawdowns on lines or loans going up just
yet. Hopefully we get some of that.
JAMES DIMON: Here's something that probably significant. Wholesale loans actually showed fairly healthy credit.
23 basis points of loss in the Investment Bank and 73 basis points of charge-off in middle market, that's a sign of
healthy companies and middle market loans, just take the middle market section, for the first time in years,
stopped going down. I look at that as a good sign too.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last quick question on reserves. In Card, you've been releasing reserves for a quarter
or two now. In RFS you didn't add or release reserves. If the current delinquencies continue and your new loss
outlook plays out, would you start to release reserves in RFS in this year if that plays out the way you think it is?
JAMES DIMON: You should assume we don't like to release loan loss reserves. It isn't like we should be saying,
well, this Company wants to do it to report its earnings. We don't consider that earnings. I always called that
income paper. It means nothing. We like to protect ourselves. In Credit Card we have some pretty good insight
into the quarter forward, even two quarters forward. As you all pointed out, there's far more uncertainty in
mortgage lending, and we are extremely cautious and careful on it. If we have to take down reserves, put it this
way, we'll take them down only if we have to.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, hi, good morning. Couple of questions. One is just
on how some of the concerns are around the industry overall and this weighs on your stock as well from time to
time. The market's concerned about credit. You seem to be showing significant improvement in credit this quarter.
Capital management, and frankly I walked in this morning not thinking we were going to get anything, but was
positively surprised by the buyback, seem to be saying that can happen.
Two questions. One is on fin reg, in the past you indicated on the derivative side that if certain things happened
and you did nothing, the hit to derivatives revenues could be in the $2 billion to $3 billion range. Are you changing
that assessment at this stage, given what we know about fin reg at this time?
JAMES DIMON: We're comparing apples to oranges. A while back when we talked about derivatives, we're
talking about if it all went to an exchange, what could that mean. That's what that number was. This is completely
different than that. And has far more complexities to clients, global competition and it will phase in over time and
we don't really know the effect. But I guess what we really look at is we're going to be able -- we want to make
Page 7 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

sure we can service our clients and we think we'll be able to and that's probably the most important thing. We'll
have some effect on revenues and margins and volumes, yes, probably.
BETSY GRASECK: And Mike talked about capital release.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes. So I mean, obviously when we talked about the revenue impact if derivatives go into
exchanges in the extreme case as Jamie said, we never then really tried to quantify, just pointed out that that's a
capital reducing event as well. So that's the point. And some of these activities, there will be capital freed up as
the business models adjust. So that also makes it very hard to put numbers on the totalities of effect when you
take into effect, timing, first blush issues of change, capital release and business model change.
BETSY GRASECK: As your estimates kind of firm up, you'll be sharing them with us.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
BETSY GRASECK: The last kind of big concern over the group is deflation. Could you just give us your thoughts
as to how you're thinking about that and how you're trying to manage in an environment which obviously clearly is
slower growth but could have some potential deflationary elements to it?
JAMES DIMON: I'm not sitting here terrified over deflation, to tell you the truth. And what we see in the economy
is maybe growth slows down a little bit in June, but still fairly good underlying numbers in manufacturing,
servicing, confidence, China, India, and so we try to protect our Company, and we really do, we look at exposure
to kind of all the fat tails, so that's kind of one of the fat tails that we worry about but we're not going to run the
business guessing that there might be deflation.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then lastly on capital, you did the buyback to eliminate the pressure that you would
have had from issuance. Can you share with us what your thoughts are on capital levels that you think you would
be able to manage to going forward or is it too early to say?
JAMES DIMON: Well, I would just make the statement, I think we have tons of capital and tons of liquidity, but we
don't determine regulatory requirements and as you know BASEL 3 is out there, and we think under any
reasonable type of BASEL 3, we'll be fine. And we would adjust. We would adjust the balance sheet in a way that
made sense. A lot of things in BASEL 3, which probably dramatically change your business models and we would
obviously adjust to that, so we think we're in great shape. We'd like to see a little more certainty around BASEL 3,
and we think there will be more guidance coming out in September and November on how BASEL 3 will be
applied.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Next question comes from the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisory.
JAMES DIMON: Hi, Meredith.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY: Sorry. It was on mute. Good morning. I
have three quick questions. One is on the general impact of wholesale loan sales, whole loan sales to third party
servicers and how that impacted results on a relative basis last quarter, last year and your outlook on that on a
go-forward basis, and then I'll wait to ask my follow-up questions later.
JAMES DIMON: Talking about wholesale commercial loans?
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Wholesale mortgage loans. Whole loan mortgage loans, packages of mortgage loans. If I
just sort of try to strip out the charge-offs from the loan balance declines and runoff, it looks like there was some
loan sales in the quarter.
JAMES DIMON: There was -MIKE CAVANAGH: Not on the residential side, yes.
JAMES DIMON: Other than normal production and sales of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the warehouse.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: No impact on credit from -- I'm sorry. No impact from credit on loan sales to third party
servicers.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No.
Page 8 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: And then the second question is, have you updated your outlook for home prices, peak to
trough?
JAMES DIMON: Obviously we look at work you do and a lot of the people, and embedded in some of our
reserving and stuff like that is, we expect home prices to go down a little bit more. But we also look at how it
would be under much more adverse circumstances and we're in pretty good shape. We don't know what's going
to happen to home prices.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay.
JAMES DIMON: We don't think anyone actually knows what's going to happen in home prices.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. And my final question is last week, a couple weeks ago, BIS came out with
statements on -- general statements on bank dividends. I don't know if you had a chance to look at it and offer
your comments on this.
JAMES DIMON: I didn't see it.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, I didn't see them either, Meredith.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Basically said that they wanted to make sure -- I'm absolutely paraphrasing here, that
when banks did reimplement dividends, there would be no risk of them cutting dividends again. Just seemed like
they were pushing out the whole dialogue on reinstating dividends for the banks.
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think that's part and parcel for the thoughts around BASEL 3 that we need more clarity on
come the fall.
JAMES DIMON: That's a policy statement which I would generally agree with but there's a judgment call there.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.
JAMES DIMON: Mike.
MIKE MAYO: I guess I'm not clear where you guys stand on the dividend. There was some articles saying you
were not going to increase the dividend this year yet now you're buying back stock. How do you think about the
dividend?
JAMES DIMON: Just before I start, I just want to say I think our business units are much closer to being
Best-in-Class than you obviously think. The dividend, we have said three things, okay. We want to see the
economy get better in terms of employment getting better. We want to see a significant improvement not for a
month or two or even a quarter in charge-offs and delinquencies. And we need more capital certainty.
The first two seem to be getting better. The third, it doesn't. There's capital certainty. BASEL, et cetera, they're all
starting to come in sight and formation. Hopefully we'll have all of that fairly understood by the end of the year.
We would like to reinstate a dividend. We think our shareholders want it. We just want to check off all those boxes
so we don't have to cut the dividend again and buying back stock is another way in my opinion of both capital
management and doing very smart things for shareholders. In fact, our preference now would be the stock
buyback. And a lot of the stock was bought back at slightly lower prices than 40 and so that is I think a very good
thing to do.
MIKE MAYO: What was the average price of the buyback?
JAMES DIMON: I don't remember. I'm going to say 37 or 38.
MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then second question, I guess you're not quantifying the impact of the Dodd-Frank act
on the derivatives business but could you just say how it could impact the revenues margin volumes and capital
just so we can try to size it a little bit better?
JAMES DIMON: I guess one of the issues -- first of all, there's timing, when you say size it better I don't think a lot
of you do forecasts that go out three years. So you're talking about several years before it phases in, and as Mike
Page 9 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

said, there are capital effects, there are margin effects, there are volume effects and when you put them all
together we don't really know. So it would be less accurate of us to take a guess at that than to tell you we don't
know.
MIKE MAYO: I mean, your guess is better than ours. One, five, ten, 20%, some people have estimates 25, 30%.
JAMES DIMON: Let them estimate whatever they want.
MIKE MAYO: That's fine. Last question does go to Best-in-Class. This is the first conference call since you made
some big management changes, talking about the need for more non-US expansion. Where do you see the end
game in terms of the non-US franchise of JPMorgan, and now that you have so much more management
resources targeted for that, what are some of the milestones?
JAMES DIMON: So I think our Investment Banking emerging is as good as Goldman Sachs, for example. First of
all, remember, Investment Banking, Asset Management, TSS are very global businesses. They've been global for
a long time. So we're talking about augmenting and accelerating some of that. If you think about it in terms of
locations for TSS, adding locations to serve clients in custody and cash management, if you think of it in terms of
Asset Management, we're always adding product and we're adding bankers. Think in terms Investment Banking,
more bankers, more countries, more coverage, more reserve. That's not just in the BRICs. It's also going to be in
other countries around the world.
MIKE MAYO: Just the last follow-up, since we're bringing up peer analysis, the Investment Bank division this
quarter had a decline of almost one half in EMEA. Wondering if there's any noise related to that.
JAMES DIMON: I think the investment bank had a great performance, but it is true, we lost a little bit of share in a
couple areas. I think I told you last time that I think we had a little artificial increase in share because we were still
strong in doing business when other people had pulled back a lot. So the competition is back. I think that's a good
thing. We're going to have to fight for it inch by inch, foot by foot, yard by yard, mile by mile and any number in
any quarter, it can easily jump around a point or two or three, as you know.
So the way we look at it is more bankers, better bankers, more products, more services, more coverage of clients.
And we will earn share. So over the years I expect the share to go up but not in any one quarter.
MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Just maybe following up on that, could you
just maybe expand a bit what you saw in fixed income trading during the quarter, maybe a bit more granular than
what was in the release. Hard to predict, but kind of what your expectations are at least the first couple weeks
we've seen in Q3.
JAMES DIMON: I think Mike said it, credit wasn't as good this quarter, rates wasn't as good this quarter and there
was an article in The Wall Street Journal about commodities, so we lost a little bit of money in coal. So nothing
mystical. Spreads and volumes are still good. Spreads are back to where they were before the crisis and volumes
are still pretty healthy in our mind. I don't know what the whole quarter is going to look like any better than you do.
JASON GOLDBERG: Fair enough. You noted in the release, in the Commercial Bank, all your losses tied to
commercial real estate, can you give us an update in terms of what you're seeing in that segment?
JAMES DIMON: Yes, so there's 73 basis points include commercial real estate and when we say that it's -- we
have -- it's not -- these are not bad numbers. We have very little -- we don't have a lot of commercial real estate
that's risky. We make disclosures, I think it's in the back of this presentation that show you by category. It's just
that 60 to 70% of the losses are coming out of the total real estate category. That's all it is.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's between true commercial real estate and the multi-family lending, both of those
running higher than that average and so middle market, commercial and industrial, excluding that would be a little
bit lower than the 75ish basis points which goes back to Jamie's point about the health of Corporate America.
JASON GOLDBERG: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer & Company.

Page 10 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO: Standing back and looking big picture, I guess given the
revenue environment, total revenues came in right about where we were looking for but expenses were about -- if
you back out the UK bonus tax and back out the $2.3 billion charge last quarter, I mean, there was expenses
where it was off a bit and if I look at it, again, sort of linking quarter revenues are down 9% but excluding those
two special items, linked quarter expenses are up about 2%, so I'm curious, do you have a -- is there a reason for
that? Is that investing in future growth? Is that the drag of higher credit costs currently or -- ?
JAMES DIMON: I think Mike mentioned, higher litigation costs this quarter. We're in a litigious society and a
litigious time. So that would be one number. I think expenses are generally in some of the businesses as we're
adding some people and adding branches and things like that and of course we continue to run higher cost in
default and higher cost in foreclosed assets. I don't know the year-over-year in that, managing foreclosed assets,
so it's a variety of factors.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And any outlook or just we should -- this is the level of expense we should expect?
JAMES DIMON: I think we kind of give it business by business, so go to Corporate, $300 million after tax is kind
of NII and Corporate overhead on allocated and unallocated, I think that's number that's probably affecting it the
most.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Then on the capital management/return to shareholders question, I understand the political
sensitivities, it's an election year, no one likes bankers and all that but even with the $500 million in repurchase,
you had close to $5 billion in earnings and your tangible common ratio is building up at the tune of about 50 basis
points a quarter. Is there some point at which the regulators just say uncle and just go ahead and do what you
need to do?
JAMES DIMON: Well, we bought back -- buying back stock, it just started so that doesn't have to necessarily end.
As you know, we don't tell you what we're going to do with buying back the stock but we agree with you, we just
think -- I think we're trying to be clear. There are a lot of uncertainties around capital. As those uncertainties are
resolved, which I think when they do we'll have plenty of capital and that capital number is going to grow even
faster over time, not slower as reserves come down, et cetera.
We agree with you. We're getting capital heavy. We're buying back a little bit of stock. When we start the dividend
we want it to be permanent. If we're lucky, sometime by the end of this year, and hopefully sometime -- if not that,
hopefully early next year.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Then I guess just going back to Guy's question a little bit, as the Card Act was making its
way through Congress, we could kind of see the revenue -- the offsetting revenues come into the income
statement for most of the Card issuers and the revenue margins started going up and I'm just curious, with the
NSF fees and potential limits on interchange fees and all that, can you give us an idea of what kind of tests and
experiments on the revenue offset side you're doing?
JAMES DIMON: Well, in Retail Banking, I mean, I guess the big issue with both those things is how much of that
will eventually be repriced into the business. If you're a restaurant and you can't charge for the soda, you're going
to charge more for the burger. I just -- my guess is over time it will all be repriced into the business. And we really
-- it may change the model a little bit. Maybe change the pricing a little bit. It may change how many customers
you can serve. It may change the products you roll out. But eventually it will all be repriced into the business and
in Retail Banking it will probably be -- you've seen a bunch of banks do it already, adding monthly fees or
something like that. And in Credit Card, it will be possibly adding higher fees on Credit Card and slightly higher
going in rates.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Hi, Jim.
JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Good morning, Mike. One quick question, was there
any material DVA?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I mentioned it, I thought it mentioned it anyway. In fixed income we had about $400 of DVA,
and in Equity Markets we had $200 million of DVA.
JIM MITCHELL: And then maybe more broadly on the credit side again, sorry to keep hammering away on the
mortgage side, your guidance on the home mortgage side is higher than -- materially higher I guess than the run
Page 11 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

rate we saw this quarter. Is that just conservatism on your part or are you building in some expectation of higher
losses? Was there something unusual this quarter or as home mods come in is that expecting to kind of drive
those losses a little higher?
JAMES DIMON: I think that we are extremely cautious about mortgage and we're going to be cautious until this is
done. Okay? There are a lot of factors at play here. There's lot more uncertainty in it because of higher
foreclosures, home prices, and we just are by nature going to be cautious about it. And that is more of a kind of a
static look about what it could be like the next couple quarters. Obviously we hope it improves. Mike mentioned
that the early indicators like front end delinquencies and a bunch of other things kind of leveled off a little bit in
June. As opposed to continuing to get better. So we're just trying to be cautious here.
JIM MITCHELL: I think any specific comments on home equity there's been a lot of discussion about what the
impact would be if there's some principal reduction on the first mortgage and what that could do to loss rates. I
know we talked about this before, Mike, but -JAMES DIMON: And we've been a lot of work on this too okay. Some of those mortgages are first liens. Some of
them are second liens with low LTV. Okay. A lot of them are fine. But if you were in a HAMP program, we
generally take a big hit like the first mortgage does. Think of it that way.
When a first mortgage defaults on a high LTV, eventually the home equity is written off. That is already in the
ongoing charge-off numbers, though I do believe it delays the loss a little bit. We try to recognize that in our
reserving. Okay?
JIM MITCHELL: Right. And as they go -JAMES DIMON: The hit is being taken after the first is written down. That's what happens.
JIM MITCHELL: After 150 days past due, right, you mark the realisable value anyway and that's included in that
assumption.
JAMES DIMON: I think the whole thing gets a little delayed. What happens in the seconds, they're current, they're
current later than the firsts are current. There's a delayed effect in the seconds which we acknowledge and we try
to account for that.
JIM MITCHELL: Okay.
JAMES DIMON: I know it's a shocking number, I don't remember it exactly, but something like half of all -- half of
the cases where the first is in default, the home equity's still paying. Remember, the home equity is a loan
secured by real estate. They're supposed to pay. Not supposed to walk away from the loan because the collateral
is worth less. A lot of people want to meet their obligations, which we think is a good thing in life, not a bad thing.
JIM MITCHELL: Okay. Great, thanks.
OPERATOR: Next question comes from the line of David Konrad with KBW.
DAVID KONRAD, ANALYST, KBW: Good morning. Couple quick questions. One, thanks for giving the DVA
number. I was wondering, given the widening credit spreads in Europe, if there's a CVA adjustment in the trading
line.
MIKE CAVANAGH: In those numbers it's pretty much a wash. A our credit portfolio revenue line has a whole
bunch of things going on in it but not worth -- they wash themselves out. In fixed income Equity Markets, DVAs,
CVAs, pretty much the numbers I just gave, 400 and 200.
JAMES DIMON: We're hoping new accounting rules get rid of DVA by the way, because we don't think it was one
of the wiser things that was ever done in accounting.
DAVID KONRAD: Second question, I know the risk in the market is kind of perceived financial stability of the local
markets and I think at least last quarter, your exposure to state municipalities in terms of credit commitments was
around 5% of your portfolio. Just wondering if you give your thoughts on your risk in that portfolio and your
strategy there.
JAMES DIMON: We think we're fine. We do think there's some exposures and I think some of the municipalities
more than some of the states. We do provide credit and will to provide credit to states, municipalities, hospitals,
Page 12 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

state plants, state utilities, part of our job. We just try be cautious in terms of credit. We're not worried about it any
more than other stuff. I think we've always been very tight on it.
DAVID KONRAD: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. I think most of my questions have been answered but I
just had two quick ones. First, in terms of reserve recapture, I know you probably don't want to make too many
definitive statements on the home mortgage side but when we think about it ongoing on the Credit Card side, is
there any way to think about the magnitude of reserve recapture relative to the improvement in the charge-off
ratio or the delinquency trends? You talked about sort of the charge-off ratio potentially going down another 50
basis points in 3Q, potentially delinquencies continuing to get better. Is there any way to sort of equate that pace
with the magnitude of reserve recapture in the card business?
JAMES DIMON: I'll give you a simplistic way to do it. If your think your 12 month forward charge-off is going to be
8%, you're going to have 8% reserves. If you think the normalized rate is going to be 5%, eventually your
reserves will come down to 5% of outstandings. That is what will happen. It just will happen over time.
We don't know exactly what quarter, but eventually -- that's true for a lot of these reserves by the way. That's why
a lot of people talk about reserving is a very pro cyclical thing. You put them up in the worst of times and then you
take them down when things are getting better. Of the $36 billion that Mike mentioned, a lot of that will eventually
come back into income.
MIKE CAVANAGH: But that's another place where we would love to see the accounting rules get away from that
pro cyclicality before this cycle is fully over.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thanks. That's helpful. And then Jamie, could you make any comments on the investment
banking pipeline or your view in terms of when and if Investment Banking revenue will start to pick up?
JAMES DIMON: Investment Banking is doing fine and the pipeline is fine but I always point out to you all that the
pipeline is notoriously can bounce up or down based upon the environment and animal spirits and a whole bunch
of things. We see a lot of activity in the Corporate world and when they start -- when people start doing more
M&A, I saw a couple deals that were announced this morning, so we'll see.
ED NAJARIAN: Would you expect a pickup in the second half versus the first half or do you think that's more of a
2011 event?
JAMES DIMON: I think your guess is as good as ours.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. I was wondering if you could kind of maybe
describe a little bit how much capital you've allocated to the stock buyback program. $500 million is probably less
than where you thought the dividend might go on a quarterly basis. How much is left there, if any?
JAMES DIMON: The $500 million just started. I think, Mike -MIKE CAVANAGH: We've got a couple of billion dollars. There's a couple of billion dollars worth of buyback in a
yearly period just to keep net shares flat, going back to an earlier question. So I would have that in mind over a
full year's time window, $2 billion, $3 billion is the kind of level for that. Whether we push through that is a
separate issue.
JAMES DIMON: And I think it was a baseline. If the stock goes down and we have regulators don't mind, we
could buy back a lot more than that. If stock goes up, we may not buy back any.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Okay. And as far as kind of separate question, there were a couple of questions
relating to checking account pricing related to kind of overdraft fees and debit card fees. Why do you think it is
that we had the Card Act reprice-related repricings in the industry kind of happen so much faster than checking
accounts. We've kind of seen very few announcements in changes in checking account pricing.

Page 13 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMES DIMON: I just want to comment on the stock buyback because it's really important, we don't believe
buying back stock is returning cash to shareholders. We buy back stock when we think it's a great deal for the
ongoing shareholders, not the shareholders we bought back the stock from. It's a little different from how other
people look at stock buyback. I think that people are still estimating the effect of all the fees, and how it's going to
function. I think some banks have announced changes in products and platforms and some banks have made
changes in deposit rates and some of that. So it's just -- it's a little bit lagged. And remember, in Credit Card, in
general, the Credit Card companies were already losing a lot of money when some of the stuff got put in.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right. Fair enough.
JAMES DIMON: A lot of them on a standalone basis wouldn't have made it if they weren't part of bigger
companies.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Fair enough.
JAMES DIMON: People had to do things to save their lives.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. Last question is, it's been suggested that you wouldn't really see Corporate loan
demand return until corporations had started reducing some of the cash they have on deposit at banks. You kind
of referenced the decline of deposits being WaMu-related high cost deposits. Was there any runoff of Corporate
liquidity that might be a precursor to loan growth on the Corporate side?
MIKE CAVANAGH: No. Looking at businesses there, you'll see pretty stable wholesale deposits, liability
balances.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, thanks.
JAMES DIMON: A lot of corporations have prefunded more than normal their future needs in the bond markets,
when the bond markets opened up. So most people, economists look at all the cash on Corporate balance sheets
and say there's a lot and they're waiting for them to start spending it. When you start to see plants being built and
M&A deals, then you'll see more Corporate lending.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Thanks.
JAMES DIMON: Even middle market, look at our middle market business, forgot the numbers exactly, but 18
months ago, we had $100 billion of loans and $100 billion of deposits. Now we have $90 billion of loans and $130
billion of deposits for middle market clients. You could see that start to show they're pretty flush, too. And huge
unused lines.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mandle with GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Thanks. Two questions. One is in regard to the repurchase program. If I'm
reading this right, looks like about two-thirds of it or one-third of it was actually in the quarter and then the other
two-thirds of the $500 million was in the current quarter, since the end of June.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's right. That's right. Started toward the tail end and continued through yesterday.
RON MANDLE: Yes. So the average -- seems like the average shares could actually decline this quarter if you
continue the program, decline going forward compared to the average of the second quarter because so much of
the repurchase program has been loaded into this quarter.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes. But going back to what Jamie said, the pace will depend on where the price is.
RON MANDLE: And then separately, I have a question about loan loss provision and the provision relative to
average loans is about 190 basis points, and your normal charge-off level, it's hard to say what it was, it was just
over 100 basis points in 2006 and 2007, 200 in 2008, went way higher in the crisis. I guess I would be looking for
the provision to be matching normal charge-offs at some point and with this 190 and normal who knows what,
maybe 125 or 150, seems like we're pretty far there getting the provision back to normal if the provision's going to
match charge-offs in some normalized world.
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think you're making two points. One is we would agree that in the businesses, particularly
the consumer side, charge-offs are running still, even though they've improved at historically high levels, and
Page 14 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

versus what I showed you at Investor Day back in February. There is still room to go for charge-off levels to get
back to what we would consider to be the appropriate level for the risk we're taking and the way we're building our
business models. So that's fair enough. Then reserving, we spent plenty of time talking about, Ron. You get that
side of it as well.
RON MANDLE: I'm really separating the reserve releases, eventually the reserve is going to reflect the actual
level of charge-offs but the provision, and you get there with a provision that is based on normal charge-offs. And
I guess I think the question I'm asking is that we're probably not actually -- the actual level of provision in the
current quarter is not that far from what a normal provision might be.
JAMES DIMON: No, including the reserve take-down.
RON MANDLE: Yes, including the -JAMES DIMON: When you look at aggregates, it's really hard. When you do it by business, I understand your
point and you may actually be right in total sometime down the road.
RON MANDLE: Okay. I guess my question is based on this provision, you're not that far away from some level of
normalcy.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Right. We do it the other way. We look at what normal charge-offs would be with no
provisioning down the road and what would that mean for total provision. You may be right. We just haven't done
that calculation like that.
RON MANDLE: Okay. That was my other question. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo and Company.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO & CO: Good morning. Just a specific question on the Card
Services business. There have been some recent media attention focused on the growing level of solicitations
across the Credit Card industry, JPMorgan's been named in a number of those articles as being among the more
aggressive in terms of the amount of solicitations. I'm just wondering if you could provide a little bit of color
surrounding what your thoughts are in terms of growing loan portfolio balances, perhaps in 2011, with the
solicitations you're doing now.
JAMES DIMON: Solicitations, remember, we rolled out three new products, okay, Ink, small business cards, a
whole bunch of those, Sapphire, more upscale -- actually four products, and then Blueprint which is how people
can manage their finances and we put a lot of marketing muscle behind it, because that's what we're here to do
with stuff like that. Put that aside from the balances. I think we mentioned, the balances are going to run off more.
MIKE CAVANAGH: 15%.
JAMES DIMON: And that will continue into mid- -- probably mid-2011. The reason for that is we have good spend
but we are running off the WaMu portfolio, we're running off some subprime, we're running off some -- we don't do
many of these teaser rates anymore and things like that. There's whole bunch of that that is running off. That
runoff will end by 2011. You'll start to see better underlying growth. Maybe we should break out in the future those
numbers for you. You could see what businesses are growing and what businesses are running off.
MATT BURNELL: I think that would be helpful. One administrative question. In terms of the $550 million bank tax,
how much of that was appropriated into the Investment Bank? I know you said most of it.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Call it plus or minus 90%.
MATT BURNELL: Okay. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Carol Berger with Soleil Group.
CAROL BERGER, ANALYST, SOLEIL GROUP: Yes, thank you. My question is -- two questions. Firstly, the
mark-to-market accounting proposals also have a proposal to make loan loss reserving less pro cyclical. Is there
a risk that in changing from once these rules change that you will have recaptured too much reserves and will
have to then build them again?
JAMES DIMON: No. We're not worried about that. We're not worried about the fair value accounting at all. We'll
figure it out. We'll continue to grow our client businesses. And we try to be very conservative in reserves and it will
Page 15 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

be what it is. Usually those accounting adjustments are made prospectively, not -- and maybe one-time
adjustments which people understand.
CAROL BERGER: Okay. And my other question, Jamie, was you were quite sanguine about being able to pass
through fees and other charges to offset whatever the impact of the new legislation is and my question is if you
were in the consumer protection agency, what are the issues that you would deal with and by raising fees is the
industry waving a red flag at the consumer protection agency?
JAMES DIMON: I think what I said is that all these things will eventually get priced into the business, okay, and
it's not that we're raising fees. You try to price your product to make a fair profit and treat the customer great.
That's the goal of any business. So I'm a great believer in treating the customer great. And my example was if you
can't charge for the soda, you're going to charge more for the burger, that's not a raising the fee. That's just
adjusting your business model a little bit to do something like that.
We are deeply in favor of good consumer products. We actually acknowledge that some of the changes made
were good changes. The overdraft stuff in certain businesses had gotten to be too much and was too punitive,
and so we believe in that. So we hope the consumer protection agency does a good job of doing things but you
can't run a business where you can't earn a fair profit.
The important thing you have to remember, take banking, to offer a credit -- a checking account, it costs us $300
a year. For that, you get ATMs, branches, debit cards, access to cash, you get anti-money laundering, which you
may not care about but we have to do. You get Bank Secrecy Act. You get online alerts. You get online bill pay.
You get a checkbook. You get all of these. You have to charge for all that.
Right now we charge some in II and some fees. It's the balance of how that works out. The winners in the
marketplace are the people that give the best products at the best cost to the clients. That's business. That's how
business has always been. That's not going to change. If someone's doing something wrong, or inappropriate we
think the CFA should go after them.
CAROL BERGER: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your final question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Can you guys share with us what you're seeing in
the loan underwriting standards? Seems like the senior loan officer survey showing on the C&I side that
standards are easing. Are you guys seeing that when you're out there pitching new business in the middle market
as well as the large Corporate area?
JAMES DIMON: Generally, yes.
GERARD CASSIDY: Is it more than just pricing? Is it other types of weakening in the standards or is it primarily
pricing?
JAMES DIMON: Again, you say weakening in the standards. This is normal competition that you want. May not
be great for us but what the world should want is that lending standards are being competitive like anything else.
In Corporate banking, large Corporate it's in the underwriting standards too. Warrants, reps, all of that kind of
stuff, covenants. In middle market I think it's probably maybe a little more pricing.
GERARD CASSIDY: Are you seeing it in other lines of business? There was a story in yesterday's Wall Street
journal talking about Credit Cards, cards being issued to people that filed bankruptcy recently. Was wondering if
there's more subprime type lending going on. Are you guys seeing any of that in the other lines of business?
JAMES DIMON: I wouldn't say subprime. I think in general, small business, our traditional small business loans
are up 100%. I think some people have loosened up a little bit year-over-year in small business and in Credit
Card and possibly in auto. Auto charge-offs are down this quarter to 49 basis points. When that kind of thing
happens, you tend to see competition step up and try to compete for business.
So I think you're going to see more of that. That's what you want. And so you will see standards. And obviously a
good bank has to try to maintain standards that give it a reasonable return. We saw what happens when they
don't.
GERARD CASSIDY: And my last question, if you guys look out over the next six to 12 months, if you could
identify maybe one of the best opportunities for JPMorgan and also what are the biggest challenges that you are
expecting to see over that time period?
Page 16 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE CAVANAGH: In challenges, clearly just dealing with the change and some of the remaining uncertainties
we talked about, and it's hard to pick any one particular opportunity but it's just the strength of all of our
businesses. They each have places where we're putting lots of resources into doing more for our clients and
expanding the capabilities we have for the long-term of this place. So Jamie hit on them, some of the international
stuff, products and Credit Card, you can go on and on.
JAMES DIMON: In my Chairman's letter this year, I wrote about what we're doing to grow every business. There's
six sections in there about every business. Every business has growth plans. I could say it's a little more
international than US and that's true but every business has growth plans.
GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Thanks. That's it. Thank you everybody.
JAMES DIMON: Thank you.
OPERATOR: This concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020100729e67f000jk

Page 17 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

