Q3 2011 JPMorgan Chase & CoEarnings Conference Call - Final
16,079 words
13 October 2011
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's third-quarter 2011 earnings
conference call. This call is being recorded. Your line will be placed on mute for the duration of the call. We will
now go live to the presentation. Please stand by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief
Financial Officer Doug Braunstein. Mr. Braunstein, please go ahead.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator. It is Doug. I am going to take you
through the earnings presentation; as you know it is available on our website. We will take questions after walking
through the presentation. And then remember to refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements in
the back of the presentation.
With that, if you turn to page 1, for the quarter we generated $4.3 billion in net income, $1.02 a share, on
revenues of $24.4 billion. There are a number of significant items for the quarter which we are highlighting
upfront. I want to discuss each of those in more detail actually when we get to the businesses in the presentation.
At the bottom of the page you will see we ended the quarter Basel I and Basel III ratios of 9.9% and 7.7%,
respectively. And that is after the impact of repurchasing $4.4 billion of JPM shares and warrants in the quarter,
and that completes our previously approved repurchase authority of $8 billion.
It is worth noting a number of items this quarter. For credit, you see our loan-loss coverage ratio of 3.74% on total
loans. Firm-wide reserves remained essentially unchanged quarter on quarter.
From a loan growth standpoint we saw loans grow across the Company $7 billion, and that is despite the runoff
we see in our home lending portfolio. We had meaningful year-to-date growth year over year in our small
business originations, up 71%; middle-market balances up 18%; trade finance up 70% year over year. Just some
examples of some of the strength in various categories.
We also experienced significant deposit growth, $44 billion quarter on quarter. Total deposits up $1.1 billion, and
deposit growth year over year up 21%.
Finally, return on tangible common equity is a circled number on the next page of 13%. And with that I would ask
you to turn to page 3 in the Investment Bank.
Results here were clearly impacted by the challenging market this quarter. We have circled net income of $1.6
billion. That is on revenues of $6.4 billion.
IB fees in the quarter of $1 billion, down 31% year over year, largely driven by the challenging capital markets
environment. On an absolute basis it was our weakest IB fee quarter since the third quarter of 2005. But having
said that, we did maintain our number-one market share in terms of fees and we also had very positive league
table results which you could see in the appendix on page 21.
Markets and CPG results, as you know from the upfront highlight, include $1.9 billion in DVA. And that largely
resulted from the firm's credit spreads widening this quarter. They actually more than doubled in the quarter.
Page 1 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Now, if fee spreads reversed themselves we would ultimately book losses. Neither the gains nor the losses relate
to the underlying operations of the Company.
So if you remove $900 million in DVA that is associated with structured notes, Fixed Income revenue would be
$2.8 billion, down 34% quarter on quarter. That largely reflects lower results in our credit-related products; and
that was offset by solid results in our rates and our currency businesses.
Equities revenue of $1 billion, down 9% quarter on quarter. That is driven largely by the volatility I talked about,
lower volumes, and the continued deleveraging of our prime service customers.
$578 million you see in the credit portfolio. Remember three parts here, NII and fees for retained loans. We had a
$1 billion DVA gain in the credit portfolio; and that was largely offset by a $700 million CVA loss after hedging.
That is, again, as credit spreads widened for our counterparties, CVA increases as well.
Expenses in the quarter of $3.8 billion, that is down 12% quarter on quarter, up 3% year on year. You see the
comp-to-revenue ratio of 29%. We continue to expect to remain full-year in the range of 35% to 40%
comp-to-revenue ratio.
And before I talk about 4Q I just want to step back, so if you -- and everyone will adjust differently. If you adjusted
out the complete impact of DVA, net income in the quarter would be about $500 million. For those that adjust
DVA and CVA, net income in the quarter would have been $900 million. And others are going to make different
adjustments as you go through your analysis.
The final comment I would make on the fourth quarter for the IB is, given current markets, it is not unreasonable
to expect that the fourth quarter is going to look very similar to the third quarter.
With that let me turn to page 4. Just a quick note here. This is consolidated RFS.
Circled net income of $1.2 billion on $7.5 billion worth of revenues. I want to dive into each of the businesses, so
if you turn to page 5, our Consumer & Business Banking business -- that is the retail branch and Business
Banking business -- recorded $1 billion in net income. That is up 22% year on year.
Revenues are up 6% year on year. And if you wanted to focus on the highlights, deposit growth up 7%; Business
Banking loan growth up 28% year on year. Actually the pipeline there remains very solid. And all of that in
revenues was offset by lower deposit spreads we saw year on year.
Expenses in the quarter up 2% year on year. That really is the continuing investment spend. We opened 60
branches, 123 Chase Private Client branches this quarter, and we are going to continue that investment.
Then the final comment is the impact of Durbin, which as you know took effect October 1. We continue to expect
revenues on an annualized basis from Durbin to be $1 billion, plus or minus. We expect $300 million in the fourth
quarter versus the third-quarter run rate; and that is an elevated amount due to the timing of when we ended
some of our debit reward programs.
Page 6, Mortgage Production and Servicing, you see net income of $200 million. That compares to $25 million in
the prior year.
Production revenues -- we have broken out Production and Servicing. So if you go to the top, Production
revenues excluding repurchases were $1.3 billion. It is down year over year, but up quarter on quarter largely on
the back of $37 billion of originations and improved margins sequentially.
Repurchase losses in the quarter, you see $314 million. That was below our expected run rate; but we do expect
losses to remain at $350 million, plus or minus, a quarter. But they are going to vary due to timing differences
around settlements and the like.
Servicing revenue of $1.2 billion, down 10% year over year. That has been driven by the decline in third-party
loans serviced; and that has been partially offset by reduced amortization year on year, and that reflects the
revaluation of the MSR asset we took in the first quarter.
Servicing expense, $866 million this quarter, up almost $300 million year on year. Approximately two-thirds of that
expense is default-related; and we expect that number to continue to remain elevated; likely to be up actually
slightly in the next several quarters.

Page 2 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Page 7, the Real Estate Portfolios, a loss of $70 million on lower revenues of $1.2 billion, that is a function of the
decline in NII; and that is a function of our portfolio runoff. We talked about that.
$27 billion loan declines year over year; $6 billion quarter on quarter. The expenses are also down 7% year on
year. And you will see in the note that is due to a temporary delay in foreclosure activity. We do it expect FAE
expense to increase $20 million to $30 million per quarter as that activity resumes.
Page 8, the Mortgage Banking Portfolios. Just a little deeper dive on credit. You see circled net charge-offs for the
quarter of $900 million, and that is a modest decline versus the prior quarter. But delinquency trends really
flattened at the end of the third quarter.
We have got, as you know, the additional detail on delinquencies on page 19 in the appendix. Given that
flattening and the ongoing uncertainty in the environment relative to HPI and other items, you will see we made
no changes in our own allowances either for our non-credit-impaired portfolio, which remains at $9.7 billion, or our
PCI.
You will also see our guidance remains unchanged at $1.2 billion, plus or minus. But it is fair to say that if the
current environment remains stable those losses could clearly be modestly better next quarter.
Then just a quick update on sensitivity for the portfolio. So if you had a 10% decline in housing prices from today,
for the NCI portfolio that would imply a modeled loss of $700 million over the next year. For PCI, given that is a
life-of-loan, it could add $1.5 billion to existing reserves. You should know that the current mark on that portfolio
already assumes a 4% decline, so that would be an additional 6% decline beyond that.
Obviously given where current conditions are, we feel our reserve levels are appropriate.
Page 9, Cards Services & Auto - This now reflects the combination of auto and student lending that we
transferred from RFS; and you will see in the supplement the restatement of all of that information.
Circled net income of $850 million; that is on revenues of $4.8 billion. Credit costs in the quarter were again the
story, $1.3 billion.
That included a $500 million reserve release in Card. That was offset by a $130 million build in student lending. At
the end of the quarter total allowances for Card are $7.5 billion.
So if you focus in on the Card Services number and you look at Chase portfolio drivers of performance, I'd start
with credit. You see the circled number at the bottom of the page, 4.34% charge-off rate in the Chase portfolio.
That is an improvement of almost 100 basis points over the last quarter. We also think net charge-offs could
modestly improve again next quarter from the current quarter; but after that you shouldn't expect much additional
improvement.
Sales volume you see is up 10% in the portfolio year over year; 2% quarter on quarter. Outstandings, while they
declined 6% year over year, actually leveled off quarter on quarter, and that is a positive trend. But I will caution
that payment rates for the portfolio still remain very high.
If you add all that up on Card, pretax pre-reserve is up almost $1 billion year over year, $700 million for this
quarter and that includes a significant growth in our marketing expenses that you see running through the
expense line this quarter.
Auto - The performance in Auto again was solid this quarter. We had almost $6 billion of originations. We do
believe we are going to continue to grow and invest and manage this business for what are very attractive
returns.
Page 10, Commercial Bank. Circled net income of $570 million. That is on revenues of a little under $1.6 billion.
Revenues are up 4% year on year.
That is the same story we have been talking about in the Commercial Bank, which is growth in loan balances,
growth in liability balances; in fact the $180 billion in liability balances is a record this quarter. And that growth is
offset by the spread compression we continue to see in our liability products.
On the loan balance side you see $107 billion circled. That is up $5 billion quarter on quarter, $9 billion year on
year. It is our fifth consecutive quarter of loan growth.

Page 3 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Middle-market balances, which I said were up 18%; that is our sixth consecutive quarter of loan growth in the
middle market. That has been a combination we think of modest demand increases as well as market share
gains.
Just I will note that utilization rates still do remain reasonably constant and low relative to history. Part of that is
that those cash balances reflect very healthy balance sheets on the part of those customers.
Expenses are up slightly this quarter. That reflects the build-out of our WaMu footprint states. Just as a measure
of performance, loan balances and liability balances are each at about $2 billion, up almost 100% year on year,
respectively.
Then you see credit trends continue to be favorable. Declining net charge-offs this quarter and declining
non-accrual loans.
Page 11, Treasury & Securities Services. You see circled net income of $300 million. That is up 22% year on
year, but down quarter on quarter.
Revenue growth of 4% year on year. That was 7% growth if you exclude the impact of the transfer of the
Commercial Card business to Credit Card we did. And the quarter-on-quarter decrease in revenue is a function of
the seasonality we see in our dividend seasons in 2Q and 4Q.
If you drill into the revenue growth, really it is driven by a number of factors. You see the circled liability balances.
Those are up 40% year on year, almost $100 billion. Very solid non-US revenue growth in this business, up 16%
year on year. We continue as a function of that growth to build out our GCB banker footprint and our product
capabilities.
Trade loan balances are up almost 70% year on year to $30 billion. And all of that continues to be offset by the
same spread compression I talked about in the Commercial Bank. Expenses here are up 4% year on year; and
that is driven primarily by non-comp-related expenses as well as the expansion I talked about before.
Asset Management, page 12. This is a business that was clearly also affected by volatile markets this quarter.
You see circled net income of $385 million. That is down 8% year on year, 12% quarter on quarter.
Revenues of $2.3 billion, while up 7% year on year are down 9% quarter on quarter related to those market
conditions. Again, this is a business that we would expect to see continued pressure on revenue in the fourth
quarter if the current market conditions persist.
Long-term flows here also slowed materially this quarter and that reduced the benefit of that mix shift we have
experienced over the last several quarters. We also continued to see outflows in liquidity products as well this
quarter.
Expenses were up 21% year on year and that is due to a non-client-related litigation matter as well as the
continued investments we've talked about before. And you see that impacting our pretax margin, reported 21% in
the quarter. If you excluded the impact of litigation, margins would be 26% this quarter but still down quarter on
quarter and year on year.
Page 13, Corporate and Private Equity. These businesses -- these results were also affected by market volatility.
Private Equity, you see a loss in the quarter of $350 million. The majority of that is driven by mark-to-market
losses in portfolio positions.
But we also reduced valuations for companies that were experiencing operating performance weakness, and that
contributed to the results as well. Remember, going forward these results are going to continue to be lumpy and
they are also going to continue to be impacted by markets and market levels.
Corporate, there was a loss of $300 million. It was a function of three things. The challenging trading environment
impacted our mark-to-market positions; and that was partially offset by higher security gains. We had lower NII;
and that is really a result of the repositioning of the portfolio. We have talked about that for a number of quarters,
but the security gains we took last quarter lowered NII this quarter. Then we also took $1 billion in litigation
expense, predominantly related to mortgage matters. And you see that in Corporate for the quarter.
The other comment I would make here is that, given the current environment and given our positioning and given
reinvestment opportunities, we do expect Corporate excluding Private Equity to basically be zero, plus or minus,
in the fourth quarter. And I think Jamie will talk a little bit about '12 guidance later.
Page 4 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

I think I have covered much of page 14 -- in fact all of 14; all of 15. So with that maybe, Jamie, I could turn it over
to you.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Great, thanks Doug. So hello everybody. Let me
just cover a couple quick things, then we will open it up to questions and comments.
Page 16 has a page called Comments on 2012. I just want to point out to you as usual we focus on the negatives
and the issues, and not the positives.
We have great franchises. Doug mentioned some really astounding numbers. Small-business loans up 71%;
middle-market loans up 18%; trade finance up 71%; deposits retail up 7%; deposits Commercial Bank up
something like 30% or 40%. I won't include TSS because some of that may be a little a flight to quality, but up
$100 billion. Unbelievable liquidity.
So we feel very good about all the things. But having said that, just a couple quick comments.
Investment Bank, we say -- hard not to be cautious. I would say that right now nobody -- nobody knows what is
going to happen tomorrow. So I have seen markets like this where things stabilize; Europe does something big
and things take off. There are fairly large backlogs and we pointed out to you before backlogs are very deceptive.
But you know, you can't look at these things and not expect maybe this will go a little bit longer.
We have no major layoff programs. Obviously the Investment Bank will be trimming its sails a little bit, getting
tight. And there are some benefits of getting from -- rolling in some new productive systems. So we expect to see
their headcount going down, but no major layoff programs.
Asset Management obviously dependant on market levels; but we continue to build the business and even this
quarter had net inflow. We don't know about other people yet, but I think that is probably pretty good.
Consumer & Business Banking, Doug has already mentioned Durbin. This $600 million is the same as the other
$1 billion you saw; this is just after-tax. This is the actual revenue in effect minus what we have already done, but
not including what we might do.
So we are looking at products, services, how we want to do it, how we are going to price it, and try to be a little
creative and smart and do something really neat. But -- so we are just saying that that one thing alone is that -there may be other sides to that one.
And there is a little bit of spread compression, given the low interest rates that, if all things adjusted for now, if we
just kind of reinvested at the same duration, etc., it would impact net income by $400 million. I just want to point
out, that is purely up to us. We can do that or not do that.
If rates go -- it is really longer-term rates that this is the effect of; and we can wait or not wait. So at this point it
would be our decision.
Commercial Banking and Treasury & Securities Services. Their margins would be low as long as rates stay low.
So they are positioned to benefit from raising rates when and if that happens.
Quarterly net income Doug already mentioned. I would just say Private Equity -- if things stay like this you
shouldn't expect any profit this quarter.
And then just to point out, we haven't really spoken of this before, part of Private Equity is marked to market, part
of it is marked to model, which means marked to P/Es and stuff. So that you can think of it -- several billion dollars
are in effect marked to market pretty much.
And then obviously in Corporate also these are Firm decisions. Depending how long we go in duration, depending
how much risk, we take depending what happens to the rest of the balance sheet -- we will decide when and how
to use some of our firepower to create more income. We are just talking about the negative part right now.
Reserve release. I think it has been pointed out by several people already that we didn't take reserves down. We
are fighting not to take them down.
We may not be able to not take them down, because obviously we operate under a bunch of accounting rules.
But our predilection right now is, with delinquencies kind of flattening out, there are some good signs, there are
some bad signs -- it is all over the place. We would rather just leave them up until we have to take them down. So
don't read anything into that other than we are just trying to be conservative here.
Page 5 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

We are going to spend a lot of time literally the next six or nine months particularly to build our budgets, dealing
with regulatory issues. So what we want to do is build in at the product level, the legal level, liquidity, capital,
G-SIFI, whatever we have to deal with so we can properly price and manage our businesses going forward. I do
think it will have effects on a whole bunch of areas. We haven't calculated it yet now; but if I had to guess, it is
going to add $0.5 billion to overhead over time as we put all these systems and reporting in. I want to point out
that I think some of that is a waste of money. But that is life; we simply have to do it.
The last point under Other -- I gave one issue on business issues about branch build. I think we are going to build
250 branches this year. We indicated we might do more; it's possible we won't now.
We are going to be looking -- we are going to be relooking at a lot of businesses issues. Take branches, for
example. With NSF/OD changing, with Durbin changing, with FDIC charges changing -- some branches the
margins are no longer great. So we probably will reduce a little bit the branch build strategy. We still need to build
branches in certain cities and particularly California, Florida, build out our footprint. But we will modify that and we
will report back to you when we have that.
But I would say the same thing about lots of products and services and issues. We are going to be taking a look
at them. I'm not expecting anything dramatic; but obviously there's a lot of issues there when we are making so
many changes all at once.
Capital generation, dividend -- obviously a Board decision. Probably will take that up at the turn of the year. I
would like to just see us do it kind of steady every year, but not much more than that.
We are going to continue to invest in organic growth, but there are a lot of issues and a lot of analysts have raised
it as -- which ones might you rethink? We will be back to you on that.
So there are areas we know we are going to finish building out, and there are other areas we maybe look at how
aggressive, what the price will be, and whether it still makes as much sense as before. But organic growth is an
important thing that you can't stop/start -- i.e., hiring private bankers, training people, building systems. So we will
still be doing some of that.
The last box, which is kind of boxed there, it says -- meeting regulatory requirements and stock buyback. We still
have -- we will have enormous capital generation, but we are trying to figure out -- I call it capital confusion.
We have a lot -- it is hard to tell what we are supposed to do, how we are supposed to do it. And we will be
figuring it out, having conversation with regulators.
At one point that capital generation will be used fully to do what makes sense for shareholders. The question is
how quickly we want to get to where we need to be.
And there are other things, like there are new rules coming, risk-weighted assets models, models versus
European companies, what mitigation we want. Some mitigation will take place and run off; some we can do more
actively, but it would cost a little bit of money. Why do it quickly, if it would cost you money?
So we are going to be talking more about this as we go forward. Obviously if you want to make the point, we
spent the whole $8 billion buying back stock; and yes, it would have been wiser to wait. We are sorry.
And with that I will open the floor to questions or comments. Oh, I am sorry page 17.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Page 17, yes.
JAMIE DIMON: We tried to make this simple but -- Cramer? If you are on, Jim, I gather we didn't do a great job at
it.
So here is -- I am going to take you through the top. AFS securities, these are held by Treasury or by CIO often
offset deposits or other things that we need to do for asset liability management. That $3.7 billion, if you market it,
it would be about $3.4 billion. It is mostly sovereign exposure in the five countries, mostly obviously Italy and
Spain. And we go back to potential losses in a second.
Trading, $8.7 billion. Includes $14 billion of gross long derivative; then we offsets the other side. We have got
collateral which is mostly cash, $6.7 billion against that. Sovereigns do not post collateral, so a lot of the
remaining exposure is sovereign exposure. So think of it as 65% to sovereigns.

Page 6 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Lending, the $7.9 billion is almost all corporate or bank. It is 75% corporate and probably about -- or a little more
than -- maybe 80% corporate and 20% bank. Some of those banks by the way are very good banks, so we are
not that worried about it.
So if you actually look -- and a lot of this lending to corporate is large global multinationals. So -- and this number
obviously bounces around as derivative values change and mark to markets change and collateral changes.
But the $15 billion is what we have been managing to, kind of. And my -- if you said, if everything goes terribly
and these countries default and the loss given default is 10%, 20%, 30% -- that is where we came up with $3
billion after-tax, which is $5 billion pretax.
So you can do it yourself and go across the top. How much would you lose in a government security if they
defaulted and it got restructured? And by the way there are other offsets and other positives not exactly on this
page, and we can manage these exposures.
So the reason we are doing this is because we do business with these countries. Again you know I mentioned
capital confusion; I will mention banking confusion. Do we -- obviously, we have been doing business with these
countries for 100 years. A lot of these clients -- you can't say you are going to be your bank one day and the
second things get tough go away the next day.
So we think we are earning some points, we are helping some companies, we are helping a few of the banks.
And we hope the countries appreciate it. So we have decided to take this risk. Obviously we can change that on
pretty quick notice if we wanted to. And we still think it is the right thing to do. I still don't expect the worst case in
terms of our charge-offs in any event.
So I will stop there and open the floor to questions or comments for Doug or myself.
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jason Goldberg, Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Yes, Jamie, I was hoping you could maybe flesh out
some of the buyback and capital commentary you made. I guess you mentioned confusion. You obviously
exhausted the buyback that you set for this year.
I mean, is there ability for you to do more? Or now are you going to wait, and wait till early next year, or do you
even have to wait beyond that?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the way the Fed has set it up is that you can request; and as we go through our budget
and stuff we are going to decide what to do. What we used to -- we used what we already had permission for
them.
And like I said, we have a lot of capital generation. The only question is when and how you use it, and how
quickly you want to get up to the higher Basel III numbers. Do you want to get up there just by retaining capital or
by waiting for mitigation and things like that?
So we will be back to you on that. There is a lot of issues around that.
JASON GOLDBERG: I guess on last quarter's earnings call it seemed like you were going to ease -- leg into
these new capital requirements and continue with the buyback; and now it seems like a change in tone. Just
curious if there's anything in particular driving that.
JAMIE DIMON: I think you are picking up a real change in tone. I think the fact is we don't know what the rest of
the world is going to do. It is a little confusing about it. And I think the regulators need to give not just JPMorgan
but the banking industry a little more guidance. Do they really mean you can leg into this over seven years? Or do
they really mean they want you to do it right away?
We can probably do it very quickly if we wanted to. I am not sure that is the right thing for the system. (multiple
speakers)
JASON GOLDBERG: Then just turning to Volcker, we got some more guidance late last week and this week. I
guess your initial interpretation of what they put out, the overall impact either in dollars or direction in terms of on
your businesses?
Page 7 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so let me take you to the most important thing. The United States has the best, deepest,
widest, and most transparent capital markets in the world which give you, the investor, the ability to buy and sell
large amounts at very cheap prices. That is a good thing. I wish Paul Volcker understood that. Okay?
Now we understand why there is no proprietary trading. That was fine.
And these are like -- I haven't read them all yet -- like 178 rules or reporting and compliance around what is
proper market-making. We have to be in a position to do proper market-making for our clients. Most of our
business is market-making.
So there is going to be commentary. I think the commentary is going to come from the public, which includes you.
I hope all of you on this phone understand how important this is, not just for your own business but for future of
the United States. And we hope at the end of the day we will be able to make markets freely.
If American companies are put at huge disadvantage, the foreign companies -- this is just -- we were told
everyone is going to adopt this, which we know is not true. So now it would be even a bigger deal.
So to me we have got to keep all these things in mind and make sure it ends up in the right place. We will be
giving our comments to regulators, and I assume a lot of you will too at one point.
JASON GOLDBERG: Any chance you kind of put a stab in terms of dollars or a range in terms of what the impact
would be go-forward if you implemented it today?
JAMIE DIMON: It's impossible to tell. These are just comments and rules and requirements, and it cuts across all
of our parts of our Company.
So they seem to be more prescriptive. I would have preferred to keep it simple. High capital -- which remember,
they already doubled and tripled capital and liquidity on trading; and proper reporting and disclosure. But this is a
little more prescriptive. It may make it a little bit harder.
But let's let it work through the process before we have too many comments about it.
JASON GOLDBERG: Fair enough. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group. That question has been withdrawn.
Glenn Schorr, Nomura.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thanks very much. So, Jamie, on your
commentary around the Euro 5 is helpful. But lately, whether it be valid or not, there has been some massive
concerns around some of the other parts of the Continent.
What is the key message that we should come away with? A, your exposures to some of the other big areas such
as France was a level of concern for people. And then more importantly, how do we move forward here? What
needs to happen in your view to gain confidence back that the banks there have enough capital, that we are not
in a never-ending spiral here?
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. So you talk about other -- the big European countries, okay? Obviously we have exposures
to France, Germany, UK bigger than the ones we have in the ones in Italy and Spain. Large parts are also large
corporates; so keep that in mind. Plus the sovereign credits are fine.
So it's a whole different issue. The real issue you are talking about is now. Go to the bank -- obviously we do
business with the banks, the larger global market counterparties which we track and monitor very carefully those
exposures. Most of our exposures -- not all, but most of our exposures with global market counterparties are
collateralized, sometimes with a bucket, and sometimes we have other tertiary exposures, something like that.
So a couple of them are rather large, but not one of them would make me lose my -- because of a direct related,
would we lose sleep. Most of them are -- most of them are in the couple hundred million dollars net-net-net. But
remember, those bounce around. Derivative exposures bounce around. We also think most of those banks are
actually quite sound. They have capital; they have got liquidity; they have got -- we think they will get some kind of
-- if they need it, some kind of support.
And what is needed in Europe, or are you talking about the United States?
Page 8 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GLENN SCHORR: Europe.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay, Greece eventually has to be ring-fenced and restructured. But you don't want to do that
disorderly, so that you don't cause a problem elsewhere.
Eventually you are going to -- by using the ECB, the ESFS, and statements that Italy and Spain are solvent, they
just need a little liquidity help -- which by the way is true. We believe they are quite solvent, and if they had their
own central bank and they could print euro, we wouldn't be having this conversation at all.
As you know they can't print euro, so they -- and they have central banks but they can't print in the euro currency.
So in effect the ECB or someone else has to stand in as the central bank and provide liquidity. I think to do that
you want other countries, France and Germany, to be very comfortable about -- I guess the final point is that
some kind of restructuring of the treaty so people feel that they are not continuing, that no one is continuing to
take advantage of a system that is flawed.
I think that is all reasonable. And finally, I think some kind of national programs for TARP to support banks that
need help; that is kind of belt and suspenders if you do the other stuff. But you obviously might see that too.
If you did all those things, this crisis would be over. It's complex; you got 17 nations involved in it. So I am not
saying it is simple. When I listen to politicians it sounds to me they have the will, just it is hard to find the way.
GLENN SCHORR: Yes, understood. Then maybe, Doug, one for you, a more technical one. On page 42 of the
supplement, we have seen a big jump up this quarter in some of the repurchase demand buckets by certain
vintages in '05; and what was surprising is even the post '08 stuff.
I guess my question there is -- is that the same GSE monoline stuff that we have seen? Or is a new player in
town with the FHA? Any color around that would be great.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It is the same that we have seen. But remember, Glenn, it is just going to be lumpy. That
is in part what you are seeing; but you did see both demands as well as unresolved demands go up quarter on
quarter.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Is the FHA going with the GSE playbook? And do they have the same rep and
warranty?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: The FHA issue is a different issue and that really -- that relates only to our Chase activity.
Because that was really the only -- Chase was the only real counterparty with FHA on that.
That issue is one we are going to continue to watch. We don't think we have issues there. But you don't see that
reflected in these numbers here.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Thanks very much for all the help.
OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI CAPITAL: Yes, so my question has to do with your trust preferred securities. I
think you have nearly $20 billion of callable TruPS. And just wondered what your thoughts are about calling them
and the timing of calling them.
JAMIE DIMON: Go ahead, Doug.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So, there are a number of those that would make economic sense for us to call. They are
callable as a function of a regulatory event; and we would expect to see that regulatory event clarified. And to the
extent that it makes economic sense for us to do, so we would then call them.
ED NAJARIAN: So should we potentially think about you calling those sometime next year, perhaps?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Well, I think the ones that make economic sense for us -- there are some that are very
attractive financing over the long run. For those that make sense for us to call because they are not attractive, we
expect to have the ability to do so.
ED NAJARIAN: But as we read what you refer to as the regulatory event that looks like it makes them callable,
you agree that that makes them callable at your discretion?
Page 9 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: Ed, different people have different things in their notes, so that is why some people are able to do
it in a different way.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you very much. That was it.
OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Doug, a question on the net interest income and
spread compression. Could you remind us of that repositioning that you have been doing that you talked about
over the last several quarters in the investment portfolio?
And then just kind of at the top of the house, your outlook for net interest income and maybe the margin?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, so on margin -- and we saw it again this quarter -- there are three factors hitting NIM.
You have got the increase in deposits, and a lot of that is being kept short-term, and so that lowers NIM; but it
does increase NII.
You have got a switch in our loan portfolio. We have got more corporate client loans, and that changes the mix
and as a result the yield.
And then the third and the most important is this repositioning. That is, we have taken security gains that lowers
our NII on a go-forward basis; and that has really repositioned ourselves, as Jamie talked about, for reinvestment
when and if there is a rising rate environment. In the interim those reinvestment opportunities are short-term and
low-yielding.
JOHN MCDONALD: What about any offsets on the cost of funding side in terms of lowering your deposit rates,
your CDs, paying off longer-term debt? Is that embedded into your outlook?
And just a reminder, when you net all that together, how are you thinking about NII over the next couple quarters?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Well, again, you will have offsets that you have seen from that. Let's start with how we are
thinking about NIM. We continue to expect those things I just talked about to continue to play through; so you will
see more pressure on NIM.
NII is in part a function of what balances do, what loan growth does. And generally speaking there are some
pieces of the portfolio that we have told you all along continue to run off. So it is a function of what happens net to
NII.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then a follow-up on Glenn's question on the mortgage putbacks. It seems like you
slightly tweaked your outlook to maybe $350 million per quarter from $300 million on the putbacks.
Just a broader -- are you seeing a change in behavior from the GSEs in terms of their requests, where they are
increasingly looking to put back loans that have been paying for one, two, or three years and then go bad? Is
there a noticeable change in their behavior there?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think we really changed the forecast. It is about $300 million, $350 million. There hasn't
been a huge change in how they are doing it; but obviously we are paying attention to that just like you are.
A little bit. We have -- we modeled into our numbers some of these factors anyway. So you have really got to look
at -- is it different than what we modeled in?
We still have $3.6 billion in reserves. At one point those reserves end up being excess, and we'll have to start
taking those down too.
JOHN MCDONALD: In terms of the WaMu GSE exposure, you feel like you are substantially done and covered in
terms of putbacks for WaMu GSE claims?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: We settled some of those upfront.
Page 10 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JOHN MCDONALD: Some of it's settled, Doug? Or it's all -- settled plus reserved right now?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's right. For just the simple GSE putback exposure, yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: For WaMu?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: WaMu.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last thing on the AG settlement talks, I understand this isn't done; but have you been
taking reserves for potential financial penalties that might come out of that?
Then on the other side, in terms of changes to servicing, have you been trying to get ahead of that in terms of
adding costs to your servicing base and reflecting that in the valuation of the MSR? Even though that is not done
on the AG side yet.
JAMIE DIMON: Let me give you a broadband. First of all, we would love to have some kind of settlement. We
think it is actually good for everybody to get some of that and move on, if it is reasonable.
But there are 50 state AGs. It looks like it is getting bogged down. So we don't -- we will see. We are here, we are
available, we'd like to work it out.
Last quarter we did take higher servicing costs in the MSR. So go back to last quarter's numbers; we talked about
it relating to the consent order and some of the default costs. And what was the other question?
JOHN MCDONALD: Just in terms of financial penalties; you are building a lot of litigation reserves. Just kind of
wondering what are the (multiple speakers) getting some of that in there.
JAMIE DIMON: Last quarter we put up $1 billion for a bunch of various items relating to a bunch of various items
which we didn't disclose. Okay? Separate from the litigation reserves.
JOHN MCDONALD: Last quarter. And this quarter you did $1 billion of litigation reserves; and that is for a host of
things?
JAMIE DIMON: No, no. I am saying separate than the litigation reserves we put up some reserves for a whole
bunch of other items related to a potential settlement.
JOHN MCDONALD: Yes; this quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: Last quarter we did it.
JOHN MCDONALD: Right, last quarter. Okay. And then -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Last quarter and several previous quarters before that. So this quarter is just litigation
reserve.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Just Doug, an administrative
question in terms of the CVA. When you are referencing the spreads that have doubled or slightly more than
doubled over the quarter, is it correct to say that those are five-year CDS spreads?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
MATT BURNELL: Okay. And then, Jamie you made a comment about -JAMIE DIMON: No, no, no, wait. Wait. It is not really. DVA and CVA are done by trade. So some are one-year,
two-year, five year, 10-year; so they are all (technical difficulty). You may be using averages of -- it is whatever
the maturity of the derivative is, the loan, or whatever.
MATT BURNELL: Right. But fair enough on a portfolio basis from the outside looking in, is the five-year CDS
spread a reasonable proxy for looking forward on those movements?
JAMIE DIMON: I'd think so. I think so.
Page 11 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes. Yes, it is a reasonable proxy.
MATT BURNELL: Okay.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Certainly for DVA. For DVA.
MATT BURNELL: Right, right. Just for DVA. Correct.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: For DVA.
MATT BURNELL: Then Jamie, you made a comment about branch growth. If looking at the branch numbers in
RFS, it looks like those are up about 128 year to date. You have talked about maybe not quite getting to the 225
number that you laid out in the Investor Day earlier this year.
I am just -- is that really being driven not only by just the reduced fees that you mentioned but also a somewhat
more cautious view of the retail banking environment? And does that mean that you might reduce your overall
branch growth going into '12 and '13?
JAMIE DIMON: That is what I was referring to. Because obviously we can't stop the fourth quarter; but if you look
at the business and you say -- okay, well, Durbin, NSF, that certain accounts no longer are profitable -- you might
modify where you build branches, how you build branches.
We are still going to build them in certain parts of the country because there is a lot of value in having market
share in certain parts of the country. But going forward we are going to modify that branch plan when we have
had a chance to look at the effect of all those things on new branch profitability.
MATT BURNELL: Doug, a final question on -- you mentioned the payment rates in the Cards business is up. It
looks like at least on the trust data that that is up about 200 basis points year over year in September.
Are you expecting continued increases of that type in terms of the payment rates going forward? Or just what is
your expectation for payment rates going forward in the Card portfolio?
JAMIE DIMON: We would expect it to go up. I mean we think you have seen -- some of what we had is mix. But if
you look at the other people, they had it all go up a little bit too. But we don't expect it to go up from here.
And then again you've got to do it by product, because there is some product that is a 90% and some product is
quite a bit less.
MATT BURNELL: Right. Okay, thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. One of the questions that investors
have been asking a lot is with respect to the sovereign or European exposures. How can we get comfortable with
the management of counterparty risk when a big part of the reduction in risk that you have got is by having
essentially purchased protection from other parties? Especially in light of what happened during the subprime
crisis to a lot of people.
So maybe you can refresh us a little bit on how you manage your counterparty risk in terms of diversification,
developing information, more information on the creditworthiness of your counterparties. And maybe you can also
tie that into the CVA charge that you had this quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: So related to the five nations -- Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain -- the 6.7 -- whatever
the counterparty risk is, that is financial institutions for the most part out -- but it's not in those five countries. So it
is other counterparts. Okay?
We do it name by name and person by person. Yes, it is diversified. And it is already in the numbers I gave you
about the other banks.
So if we said that we have a $100 million net exposure to X bank in Germany, it would include that counterpart
exposure, and for the most part collateralized. So we feel pretty good about it.
But obviously in a financial crisis these things could filter down. So you got to look at your primary risk, your
secondary and tertiary, and all that. But it is done name by name day by day.
Page 12 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

And the CVA is just the mark to market on the receivable. So if we did a CDS with someone and they owed us
$50 million, they are supposed to post collateral the next day. So we take the $50 million receivable. We mark it if
the spreads go up to $55 million or something like that. And you get more collateral and so -- but it is every day.
And a lot of the counterparts are names you know. They are global market counterparties. Some obviously reside
in France and Germany, but plenty don't.
And I said that reside France and Germany -- already in the exposures of those banks we are getting pretty much
marking to market collateral every day. We do have some exposure to those banks that aren't that way; but that
particular thing we do have mark to market every day.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Can you give us a sense for how much of that CVA this quarter came from European
issues as opposed to like monoline stuff?
JAMIE DIMON: The CVA is every single derivative credit exposure we have in the United States, overseas,
Europe, Asia, of any type of derivative. Okay? So I would guess 30% is Europe and you can go country by
country. So much is Asia and so much is the US.
If you go by ratings a lot of those are highly rated counterparties. Remember we had this -- we also look at
derivative exposure no different than credit exposure. We'd go to you and say -- we are going to give Bank of
AmericaMerrill Lynch a $100 million revolver. That is $100 million.
We may give you a trade finance line of $100 million which you use or don't use. And we may give you a
derivative line, which is not just what you owe us; it is also a stressed amount of what you owe us. And all of
these things will be going to central clearinghouses soon -- or some of them will be over time.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: That's helpful. Thanks. Let me ask a -- sorry go ahead.
JAMIE DIMON: The world went through this huge crisis with these counterparties, and it was really a very select
few we had failures. Most of the major broker-dealers were able to manage their counterparty exposures rather
well.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: That's fair. Let me ask you just a question on Cards. Obviously we have seen solid growth
across a lot of your metrics, sales, and balances. But the marketing spend is up quite a lot both quarter on quarter
and year over year.
Obviously we are seeing more competition in that space emerging, and everybody seems to want the same
affluent client base. Do you think you're going to have to sustain this level of spending in order to sustain the level
of growth you are seeing?
JAMIE DIMON: No. Remember first of all we look -- marketing is -- think of it as an investment. So there is a lot of
analysis that takes place. You can get a return on it.
And it is not all -- don't think of that as all direct mail. That is online marketing; it's -- and we have a lot of partners
like United, Continental, Southwest Airlines, Hyatt and so they have requirements. So you see our ads in the
paper all the time and stuff like that.
So it really is a wide variety of stuff, and it is obviously a lumpy number. If you look at it year over year it will
probably go up 10%, not like you have seen the 20% or 30% that it was this quarter.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. That helps. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.
PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Yes, thank you very much. Hey, Jamie, I think you talked about
regulatory confusion. I think you guys are confused and we are confused.
Moving back to the Volcker rule there is a huge political process that has to take place relative to -- before we get
to final rule. But we keep on hearing that some companies including yourself are starting to implement some of
these rules.
Can you address when you think you have to implement it? Are they going to accelerate this stuff like they are
accelerating some of the capital rules?
Page 13 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I don't know if they are accelerating things. We want to be prepared for whatever the rules are,
and really are going to do the best job we can meeting all those regulatory requirements. So we are getting
prepared.
So like, certain things like LCR you know will be implemented. The calibrations may change over time, but the
detail -- by type of deposit, by type of counterparty -- we're just going to have to do. So some we are starting to
build just to get ahead of it.
Volcker rules, we are not starting to build because it just came out. But some of the requirements like -- we
already do. We may not do it exactly the way they want, but we already do it.
We look at trading desks, and all the Greeks, and VARs, and aged inventory, and stuff like that. But they may
have reporting requirements, compliance requirements will be heavier. So we are starting to build some of that,
that we know is going to happen.
I think the Volcker rules are meant to be done by January something. Comments go -- oh, comments are in by
January. And then we -- I guess they will be some time after that.
I think by the end of this year we're going to have a lot more guidance on a lot of these various rules and
regulations and the coordination among them.
In any event, we want to try to embed it in how we run the business so it is not a -- we are not chasing our tails;
we know exactly what these things mean for our clients, our profitability, our trading desks, our loans, etc.
PAUL MILLER: Then on the Mortgage Banking side, your MSR dropped drastically now. Rates dropped almost
100 basis points. And it looks like you had a net hedging gain to offset all that MSR loss. Can you just address
that a little bit?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, the MSR, when rates go down and things refi it is like an I/O. It drops dramatically in value.
So there is no surprise there.
So what all this says, we hedged too well. That the drop in value was offset by the hedging we did.
The other thing is that the total value is running off because of a higher amortization. That $1 billion write-down
from last quarter, which really related to higher servicing costs, dropped the value of the MSR too.
Okay? So if rates went up 100 basis points, the MSR gross value would go back from 7 to 10; and hopefully the
hedge would -- well, actually, we wouldn't hedge at that point, so take the gain.
But that is all that that is. There is constant adjustments to those models.
PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much, Jamie.
OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.
GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you, good morning. When you look at your
net interest margin, your cost of deposits are about 63 basis points; and you have been having outstanding
deposit growth. Your loan-to-deposit ratio continues to fall.
How low do you think you can take those deposit rates down to? Especially in light of the fact that Bernanke has
said that he is going to keep short-end rates low until sometime in 2013.
JAMIE DIMON: I think you have got to look at it by business. Because in some businesses you have competitive
results like you have got to price certain deposits around the country retail competitively. Some of the large TSS
deposits are already getting zero. We are not bidding for them; they are just coming to us and then we got to pay
the FDIC 10 basis points on some of this too.
So it is really a little bit of everything. But it is hard to go below zero, so that's why you get a little bit of this margin
compression here.
GERARD CASSIDY: Shifting over now into the loan loss provision, and your credit metrics obviously improved in
the quarter. The net chargeoff ratio declined; nonperforming assets declined; but the loan loss reserve release or
the provision being less than the chargeoffs, wasn't as large as it was in the prior three or four quarters.
Page 14 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Is it more due to the loan growth? Or do you guys have a more cautious outlook now on credit?
JAMIE DIMON: I already said I'd put us in the more cautious outlook category.
GERARD CASSIDY: Is it more in the consumer side or are you seeing it on the commercial side?
JAMIE DIMON: I think it was both. I mean, if you went through -- go through the details in the statistical
supplement; there are loans to NPLs and loans to charge-offs, delinquencies are very strong. I think it might be
hard to keep them up here if it stays here. But like we said, it is hard not to be cautious now.
GERARD CASSIDY: Then finally just circling back to the European exposure, do you guys have the gross euro
exposure? Or is it just the net number that you have for us?
JAMIE DIMON: We showed you on that page, if you go to page 17, it shows gross derivative and net derivative.
Okay? Is that what you are referring to?
There are other exposures which are fully collateralized and I have been through them before; I don't want to go
through them right here.
GERARD CASSIDY: Okay. All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, thanks, good morning. I just wanted to follow up on two
things. One is the capital usage, where you are discussing after a steady increase in dividends. If we think about
the dividend payout ratio, you have been hovering somewhere between 20% and 30% for the last couple
quarters. And 30% seems to be what the regulators are allowing at this stage.
So are we talking about having an expectation where dividends are going to be going up in line with what you
think your earnings growth is going to be able to generate? Is that how we should be thinking about the
dividends?
And then on the timing, do you think you're going to be able to make a change in dividend before the [CCAR]
process, which is -- what, January through March?
JAMIE DIMON: Betsy, honestly we have asked that question too, because the way the regulatory thing got upset
they have this little GAAP issue. So we are waiting for guidance on that one, and I will just wait until we find out.
The Board will take it up. I think we want to be consistent. I don't know if it is going to be 30% to 40%. It will be
30% with consistent growth.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And so -JAMIE DIMON: But based upon what we think the real earnings power of the Company is, not based upon just
earnings.
BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Okay; so the Board will make their decision in December. But then you have to submit
to the Fed as soon as you can?
JAMIE DIMON: No, I didn't say December. I said after the turn of the year. We started the dividend in June, right?
BETSY GRASECK: Sure.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: April.
JAMIE DIMON: April. Before April.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, got it. Then on the topic of expenses you outlined a couple of different areas where
obviously your overhead is going to have to go up $500 million or so, if you took a guess. At the same time you're
running through each of the business lines with regard to what they can generate over time.
I mean are you trying to -- I am just asking the question as to how you thread the needle. Because you have been
increasing expenses to take share, which you have been doing. Are you at the point where you need to tilt back
towards profitability in line with what you outlined at Investor Day last year?
Page 15 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I don't know, Betsy; there is no change in strategy at all. We are still going to grow where we think
we can gain share and build a very good business. And there is always -- your expenses come before your
revenues. But like at a GCB, for example, we think it is working and we are perfectly willing to spend there.
Other things I said we are going to -- we have to modify. There are whole products that we may not be in
anymore if we look at exactly how they function with capital and liquidity charges.
But we are going to be pretty tight on expenses. We are not being lax. We are just adding where we need to add;
and then we always expect to get improvements in certain expense ratios as systems come on board, efficiencies
-- operational efficiencies.
Doug mentioned a big one. We are spending I think it was $800 million a quarter on Servicing now, which 65% is
default servicing. Well, that number is not going to stay up there forever. Eventually that default service number
will be -- it may take a couple years -- but close to zero.
We also expect to make the front of the mortgage far more efficient, too. So we are always working on more
efficiency to help pay for some of these other things.
BETSY GRASECK: Then on the top-line side you talked about pricing, pricing for liquidity, for G-SIFI buffer, etc.
Can you talk through how you think you need to reposition the business in order to do that, if any?
Because some of your competitors will say -- well, you are carrying a higher G-SIFI charge that you are not
charging for today; but when you do, you are going to become uncompetitive. So how do you deal with that
challenge?
JAMIE DIMON: So I guess -- see here is the problem with the G-SIFI. There are certain things -- we are not going
to be uncompetitive, because we are going to price it in the market and get the business. If you are going to leave
your money with us or them or a processing business, you are going to leave it with us; and then they are going
to claim it is unfair. We hold more capital, we are going to win the business because we are more sound.
Which I agree with them; I am not arguing their point. And other businesses, yes, we will probably want to shed
the asset because someone else can hold it -- like take consumer assets. If you can hold it with 7% and I have to
hold it for 9.5%, I still might service, originate, hold the strip I got -- the skin in the game strip; but syndicate the
rest.
So it will be product by product. It would be certain things. Certain of these things they want -- like one of the
things in G-SIFI was to reduce interconnectedness. So they don't like interbank lending. I think interbank lending
is going to go away.
They don't like certain type of cross-border -- though it doesn't distinguish between secured and unsecured. But I
think they have much higher charges for exposures to financial companies than nonfinancial companies. And that
is not a terrible objective. It might not happen in a productive way; but you will see that people price lines of credit
to financial companies much higher than lines of credit to nonfinancial companies.
So I can go on and on. It will really relate to the specific rules, and that is the kind of work we are doing now.
Some will cause unintended consequences that help JPMorgan, and some may very well cause unintended ones
that hurt us. But in no event are we going to price it higher and get priced out of the market because of a G-SIFI
charge. That is not going to happen.
So whatever competitor told you that, tell them they shouldn't. They are not thinking clearly.
BETSY GRASECK: Got it.
OPERATOR: David Konrad, KBW.
DAVID KONRAD, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Good morning. A couple quick questions. One
just another follow-up on expenses, specifically in Investment Banking. It looked like if I net out the DVA and CVA
the comp ratio was around 36%, which is in line with your guidance.
But non-comp expense was up a couple hundred million despite lower revenues. So I just wonder if there is any
litigation expense in the Investment Banking number as well.
JAMIE DIMON: A little bit there, yes.
Page 16 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
DAVID KONRAD: Okay. Then also maybe, Doug, the tax rate came in I think around 27%. You are usually
around the low 30%s. How should we think about that this quarter, and then kind of a run rate over the next
couple quarters?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I think run rate will be in the low 30%s, and we had some benefits this quarter. Nothing
more than that.
DAVID KONRAD: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, I would like to flesh out your comment that it is not
unreasonable to expect trading -- expect markets to be in the fourth quarter like they were in the third quarter.
Just when Jefferies reported earlier this month or last month -- and I realize it is a much smaller, different platform
from you -- but their commentary was like June, July, and September were all kind of slow and eh; but the real
damage all occurred in August when the spreads blew out. And that it was the movement in spreads that really
did the damage to their P&L.
I was wondering is that -- was that your experience as well? And -- I guess let me leave the question there.
JAMIE DIMON: So we are not going to bring up quarterly -- monthly numbers for you. But my experience in Wall
Street is as spreads gap out credit products, including mortgages and stuff like that, get hurt. So yes, I believe it
happened in August.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. So -JAMIE DIMON: But every business is different. Remember, we have a very broad business. We have got rates,
credit, commodities, currency, equity, you name it, and a lot of flow business and derivative businesses. So you
really got to look at the mixes and not just one company. I don't know Jefferies' business that well.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. Then looking at the Basel III risk-weighted assets on page 14, I guess I think it is
interesting that the Basel III risk-weighted assets keep on ticking down when loans and Basel I risk-weighted
assets are ticking up. I wonder -- I mean, is that the mitigation? And can we expect to see that decrease in the
Basel III risk-weighted assets continue over the next year or two?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That benefit is going to be model-driven and you are going to expect to see model
applications and improvement in RWA as a result of that. And that is what happened this quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: There will runoff, and there will be decisions we make about what we want to do. The way Basel
III is set up certain products have much higher capital charges than others. So we have choices and options to
make.
Over the next couple years certain things run off, or we can just sell things or hedge them differently and that
could make a big difference. So, yes; we are going to manage the hell out of RWA.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: What was the $500 million of additional overhead cost for? You said it is
regulatory-related.
JAMIE DIMON: That was my guess, Mike. I just think that when you look at G-SIFI, LCR -- I am not even
including the consent order and mortgages here -- I think we are going to have to build a lot of additional systems
by legal entity around the world to accommodate hundreds of new rules, regulation, reporting. I am just telling you
that that would be my guess right now; that is all.
We have real professional teams working today on 75 projects, and these are pretty large projects. They got risk,
credit, legal systems, HR, sales traders, globally, by legal entity sometimes, trying to do it. There is liquidity
reporting, credit reporting, new model building.

Page 17 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

And we are going to do it all well. We are going to do it all well. This is the New World; we're going to live with it.
But it is hard to say it is not going to cost money.
MIKE MAYO: You are saying you wish -JAMIE DIMON: By the way, I think it is going to be again a small unintended benefit for JPMorgan. Because
whatever it costs us may be harder for smaller people.
MIKE MAYO: You said some of that regulatory cost you wish you didn't have to do; you don't see the benefit. But
that is life.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, that is exactly right. That is exactly what I said.
MIKE MAYO: And perhaps the root cause -- and you can disagree with my premise. But perhaps the root cause
is the perception of the industry. A negative perception leads to all sorts of things, protests and everything else,
which in turn leads to regulation, which leads to some of these higher costs.
So the question is -- what can you do or should you do to help change the image of the industry? And a related
question -- you have been out there defending the industry a lot; but don't you want to disassociate yourself from
some of the bad actors?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike, first a lot of the bad actors are gone, okay? So let's be fair here.
If you talk to most clients of the -- I am talking about generic, not JPMorgan. Most of our clients like us.
Our middle-market clients like us. We are doing a lot of small business. Our consumer clients -- even our
mortgage clients.
But we have issues, and obviously I think they get way over -- we should be responsive to them; I am not playing
light of them. But if you travel around and spoke to clients everywhere, we are trying to do the best we can, like
any other business.
It is hard to make up for -- when you say change the image, if you have any great ideas on the phone you guys
can write them up and send them to me. We'll take them into consideration.
MIKE MAYO: Let me just follow up. I mean 12 of the 13 largest banks would have failed; I think you would be the
one bank that wouldn't have failed during the crisis. Is that correct? And if that is the case -- what's that?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know if that statement is completely true. But so I don't want to comment on something I
am not sure about.
MIKE MAYO: Then where is -- this is all leading to just revenue growth versus expense growth. I mean, revenues
are down $3 billion linked quarter; expenses are only down $1 billion. And it sounds like you're just kind of
tweaking around the edges.
Then you have this extra $0.5 billion of expenses coming at you. Are you going to be able to grow revenues faster
than expenses? And if not at what point do you say -- hey, we need to be more aggressive with expenses?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike, if you are going to back DVA out of earnings -- which I think you should do; I completely
understand that you normalize -- you should back it out of revenues, too. So $2 billion of that is DVA. Okay?
So what we look at -- and again it is not -- which I think it is pretty good. Look at the underlying numbers, number
of accounts, number of deposits, number of branches, number of clients, number of bankers. Keeping some kind
of good trading flow in what seems to be a terrible environment. Market shares -- that is what I'd look at in terms
of building the business.
The revenues themselves are going to be lumpy. You and I have been in this business a long time, we know that.
Obviously we are going to tighten -- trim our sails where we think there are products or areas or branches that we
can't make any money at all. So obviously we are going to adjust to that.
And a lot of that is going on right now. We acknowledge that.
MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.
OPERATOR: Jeff Harte, Sandler O'Neill.
Page 18 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning, guys. Just a few more questions. One, looking at
the real estate portfolio, the portfolio continues to decline. Loan-loss reserve kind of stays where it was.
Can you talk a little bit about how much of that maintaining reserves is just macro caution versus -- is there
actually something you are seeing in the numbers to give you concern? We see the delinquency chart that shows
delinquencies 30 to 150 days flatlining. But what else? Are you seeing other things in that portfolio giving you
concern?
JAMIE DIMON: It really is macro conservatism. If you look at delinquencies, roll rates, first-time delinquent, and
all that kind of stuff they are kind of mixed. So it could very well start to improve again.
But if it flattens out we are just -- abundance of caution on our part. The fact is the world questions them anyway
about how these reserves -- are these reserves sufficient? Obviously there are multiple years covered chargeoffs
today. They can cover a pretty adverse scenario at this point.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. Within mortgage origination, up 35% sequentially is a big revenue number. Were there
pipeline hedging benefits to that? Is there a delay? Should we maybe expect some revenue strength spillover into
the fourth quarter from the refi boom? How should we think going forward, do you think?
JAMIE DIMON: Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it was pretty much just all spreads and volume and not
pipeline hedging profitability.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's right, Jamie.
JAMIE DIMON: The pipeline would go against you in a quarter like this, when rates are dropping like that.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. Tax rate looks like it declined versus last quarter in this quarter. Any benefits or stuff we
should know about I haven't seen? Then how should we be thinking of the tax rate going forward?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, so I think we have addressed that. There were some benefits we had this quarter.
And I think you would expect it going forward to be back to a more normalized rate.
JEFF HARTE: So like look at year to date being normalized?
JAMIE DIMON: Mostly just true-ups that come through as you clean up -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: There are always going to be ins and outs every quarter, so it is going to move around.
But right; low 30%s kind of normalized rate.
JAMIE DIMON: Also when profits go down, remember the rate goes down a little bit. Because at the margin you
have more exempt income, slightly.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Meredith Whitney, Meredith Whitney Advisory.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY GROUP: Hey, good morning. I have a
couple questions. If the stock stays below tangible book value, how do you look at compensation when stock is a
component of compensation year-end for bonuses? That is my first question.
JAMIE DIMON: I'm going to pass it on to Doug -- a former investment banker.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I look at it as a very attractive component of compensation in that regard.
JAMIE DIMON: I think our employees would get very upset if we said -- when the stock is high we will give you a
lot of stock; and when you think it is low we will give you no stock.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, fair enough. Just one more technical and then I have a broader question. On home
price values, have you altered your home price expectation in any of your models this quarter? And can you
remind us what that is?
JAMIE DIMON: (technical difficulty) we have not. And in general we have got -- you know, it's by product, by area,
by everything. But general, what's modeled into our reserves and our purchase credit [period] is another drop of
1% to 4% depending what it is.
Page 19 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: It still seems that that may actually be what ends up happening. But as you know as well we do,
we don't know that exactly.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. So my last question is -- there is a lot that is coming on the market in terms of
assets for sale. I would call it an asset flush. What would be your ideal product type of assets to look at given the
fact that you almost have an unprecedented opportunity to pick up a lot?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, that is a very good question. So I should have put at that bottom of that capital thing, when I
talk about capital confusion, that is another one. So there are some wonderful things you can buy now that we
can probably get a 10% or 11% cash-on-cash return for probably with a duration of three or four years, that is
being dumped by other people. But it's got those very, very high RWA -- not like 100%; like 1,200% type charges.
But it is kind of mouthwatering. So we are trying -- that is why I am saying when we reinvest our portfolio we do
have options. But it all comes down to how we want to make those decisions. We are making them right now as
we go along; we want to think it through a little bit better.
But there will be opportunities, and we are willing to use our capital to do that. (multiple speakers)
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Do you think this all happens within the fourth quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: No, it won't all happen in fourth. I am talking about we expect that maybe -- I would say over the
next six or nine months (multiple speakers).
But you would ask the next question, which you would want to ask, which is okay. Would you rather buy 11%
RWA -- 11% cash-on-cash asset with such a [large] RWA that you get back, or buy your stock back much
cheaper?
MEREDITH WHITNEY: And the answer is?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm not going to tell you. I will just tell you there is a little bit of a dilemma; and then it relates to
whether you can or not. We know we can buy the assets. We are not sure we can buy back the stock.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, got it. Thank you very much.
JAMIE DIMON: And we know we can buy the asset and also have a huge lift in Basel III when we want it,
because it will disappear by that point. That is why I am saying it is a little bit around this capital confusion.
OPERATOR: Ron Mandle, GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. Most of my questions have been answered, but just on the reserves
-- the reserve versus chargeoffs. Last year there was about 100 basis point gap between the reserve and
annualized chargeoffs, and now it is like 250. As you say you are being cautious.
But I am just wondering what the discussion is that you are having with your accountants that they are
comfortable with having such a large gap, and whether this may be signs that the accountants are more
comfortable with less pro-cyclical reserving.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay, I think you're going too far [in]. First of all I would simply say that obviously when we do
these things we talk to the accountants. And there are judgment calls and analysis -- in fact you're always
updating when we do these things.
For example I pointed out before on seconds, behind a delinquent first, we are much different in how we look at
that than seconds not behind a delinquent first. So we do much more sophisticated reserving than that.
But I made it very clear we are going to be as conservative as possible. Maybe next quarter I am going to be
saying we had to take this down because we were forced to.
RON MANDLE: Right. Well, that is the point I am getting at. The accountants don't seem to be forcing you now;
so is that a change on their part?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think so. I think it is just the facts are constantly changing and you have got to talk to some
of the accountants, get their opinion on it. I think you are stretching to say it would be that.
Page 20 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RON MANDLE: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.
MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for squeezing me in here. Two questions. One, how
sensitive is net interest income to changes in long-term rates? So for example, rates have popped about 50 basis
points here; if Europe gets resolved and we go up another 50, how meaningful will that be?
JAMIE DIMON: Doug may know the number. We disclosed the number last time? What was that (multiple
speakers)?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So a 100 basis point shift in the curve would add a couple of billion dollars to net income -to pretax. But that is a 100 basis point shift in the curve.
A short-term move in the long end, and no move in the short end, that -- you are not going to see -- you won't see
the short-term move materially affect NIM.
JAMIE DIMON: If the curve went up today 100 basis points -- I remember the last time I looked at it, it is about
50/50 of the short and long. They both would benefit the Company.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, and obviously if long rates go up go up then you might extend out (multiple speakers)
your securities or things like that.
JAMIE DIMON: Excuse me?
MATT O'CONNOR: If long rates go up enough, that would make you change your strategy in the Securities
portfolio; that could be additive as well.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just separately, as you talk about reviewing some of the businesses, trimming
some, you mentioned exiting some. The mortgage business is one that has obviously been very frustrating
because of some of the legacy issues. But one could make the argument that you have got a capital hit, political
hit. During most times it is only so-so in terms of profitability.
We don't know what the GSE and the mortgage finance model is going to look like. Another big competitor I think
is getting out of about 40% or 50% of their production channels is closing down.
How do you think about the mortgage business going forward in terms of the various channels and just the
business overall as part of the Company?
JAMIE DIMON: Okay, so first of all the correspondent issue is not a big deal; so put that to the side. Okay? That
is really basically buying servicing, which to me is a pure economic decision. Are you buying at a good return or
not?
And some of them are clients; so we treat correspondent clients -- like banks who also have broad relationships
with us -- very differently regional banks, etc.
But we are going to be obviously going through that again too. I think a couple years ago we cut the
correspondent thing literally a third of what it was.
I look at it the other way around. I think that we will have going forward one of the best mortgage businesses in
the country. Okay?
Because we intend to build the best front-end middle-office back-office systems. Eventually the legacy problems
will be gone. We think -- we know we made a lot of mistakes here, so we are not denying that. We have made
them in other businesses too every now and then.
And we have real competitive distribution -- 5,300 branches, salespeople, a mortgage sales force. So we think it
will still be a really important product which -- no matter, whatever happens to GSEs have an embedded profit
built into it. And all the legacy stuff will be sunk cost.
Page 21 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

In fact all the underwriting for the last three years is back to where it was like 30 years ago. In fact, going forward
it is going to be a much better business. Cleaner. You won't have all these problems from the past.
So we are in favor of cleaning up the mortgage product, disclosures, national regulation. So that will make it
better.
But I think it would be a mistake to say -- okay, we are going to get out of it because of the legacy problems.
Believe me, there is a temptation. Okay?
Like we are still making $10 billion, $12 million, $13 billion in mortgages a month, a lot of it in states where we are
being attacked by AGs. We know we made mistakes. We want to resolve the mistakes, and we are willing to be
punished for the mistakes.
But I think that is the wrong reason to get out of the business for. It is too important. It is still the most important
financial product for the majority of Americans, and it will be for the rest of our lives.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: James Mitchell, Buckingham Research.
JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Hey, good morning. A couple of quick just
clean-up questions. On the $400 million net income impact of spread compression next year, in terms of an
estimate -- obviously I appreciate your comments about how you can move things around on the balance sheet.
But does that also build in some expectation for deposit and loan growth? Or should we look at that as additive if
that were to occur?
JAMIE DIMON: Additive. This is just like a static analysis.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right. Okay, great. On the student loan reserves, you increased those. What is driving that?
Just curious.
JAMIE DIMON: (Inaudible - microphone inaccessible).
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We just extended the coverage from 12 to 15 months, and performance -- net charge-offs
are going up there.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay. So somewhat of a catch up, but also not great trends. Then lastly any comment on the
thought of the Fed taking away the 25 bps on excess reserves? How that might impact you or the markets?
It seems like it is hard to get a sense of how much you have parked there. If you had to go into the short-term
treasury markets and buy up six-month, one-year at 5 to 10 basis points versus 25, is that a material impact or
not, and how you think that affects the curve overall?
JAMIE DIMON: First of all I think they have been very clear about their policy and why they have a policy and all
that. It was a real tool for them.
We do have a lot of money parked there because there is a lot of money swishing around the world that has no
place to go.
We would have other alternatives that, my guess, we would get a lot of that back anyway, but you have to take
some risk to do. Some things would be 10 -- the Fed is 25, some will be 10, some will be 15.
There are options around the world at other central banks at higher rates. We can turn down deposits; we can -we don't want to go negative on deposits, but we could do that too if we had to.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay, that's helpful. Thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: We're trying to accommodate our clients more than -- the reason we are taking some of those is
to be accommodative not to make a spread. Remember our spread for most of these things is not -- even if it is at
the Fed it is not 25 basis points. It's 15.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right, it's 15.
JAMIE DIMON: The FDIC charge.
Page 22 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMES MITCHELL: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: Honestly, if you're asking, why do you do it at all?
JAMES MITCHELL: Right. Okay, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: You wouldn't want a business to earn 15 basis points.
OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.
BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. First quick question on credit. I know, Jamie, that
you had indicated that you are cautious and you said that you are seeing both good things and bad things as far
as trends, when you commented before. But was just curious whether -- I am sure, given the size of your Credit
Card portfolio you have a great amount of data. I am curious whether or not you are seeing behaviors in that
portfolio that usually lead to an uptick in delinquencies.
JAMIE DIMON: Let me -- first of all wholesale credit is exceptionally good. It is better than -- it is almost back to
where -- I'm talking about large corporate, middle-market. So we were talking about consumer when we said
delinquency trends kind of flattened out.
On credit card there is no -- there is a little bit of flattening out in there, in their 30-, 60-, 90-day delinquencies; but
no other major thing. So what we said about charge-offs, they will probably tick down a little bit next quarter.
It is very hard to tell what they are going to be next year. We always have a lot of visibility into the next quarter.
But you know, I think with 9% unemployment it will be silly to assume dramatic improvement at this point.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, that's fair. Then on the peripheral European exposure I know you provided the $3
billion after-tax figure for impact from loss from the defaults there. But it seems as though, from the comments out
of Europe, that Greek default and potentially triggering of CDS are no longer taboo issues. So could you walk us
through how to think about maybe Greece specifically?
JAMIE DIMON: Almost none of that number is Greece.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Then as far as the impact on the system, what would you -- could you add any comments
about what you think would happen there?
JAMIE DIMON: I already commented on that, so I am not going to do it again. But we have talked about it
extensively, and actually there is some great research about it. So if you want you can call Lauren and she can
send it on to you.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time. Are there any closing remarks?
JAMIE DIMON: Doug?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Nope; just thanks, everybody.
JAMIE DIMON: Thanks for listening to us. We'll talk to you all soon.
OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
Page 23 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020111027e7ad002bd

Page 24 of 24 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

