12,168 words
20 October 2004
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
FNDW
English
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

BILL HARRISON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Good morning, everyone, I am Bill Harrison. Welcome to our third quarter earnings analysts meeting. We have, I am told, about 200 people on the phone, we have a small group here at headquarters. So with me are our President, Jamie Dimon; our Vice Chairman, David Coulter; our outgoing CFO, Dina Dublon; and our incoming CFO, Mike Cavanagh.  

First, I would just like to recognize Dina and say a few things about her. She and I go back well over 20 years from our Chemical Bank days, we've been through a lot together. Dina has contributed greatly to this firm and for many years as CFO through many merges, so Dina we thank you for everything you have done. Dina has been very proud of her relationship with the investor/analyst community, I think has done a very good job. So, Dina, we will miss you and thanks for all you have done.  

I would also like to introduce Mike Cavanagh, Mike as you know is our new CFO. Mike will not be part of the program today, but will pick up at the next analyst meeting. And Mike is somebody that Jamie and I are really comfortable will do a great job here. So, Mike, welcome to you.  

Before I turn the meeting over to Jamie and Dina, just let me make a few comments. First of all operating results for the third quarter were disappointing. Primarily effected by our weak trading performance in fixed income. You will hear much more about that from Jamie and David Coulter, including some management changes we made a little less than 2 weeks ago to deal not only with the poor third quarter performance but some quarters that we haven't been comfortable with, happy with for some period of time in terms of where we think we should be in this business when we look out ahead.  

On the positive front, we had strong results in growth and most of our other core businesses, including retail, including card, Investment Banking, I was very pleased to see our Investment Banking results because it highlights to me the power of an integrated global broad-based platform in that space, and I think we do have a competitive advantage, the results this quarter were good in our Investment Banking area. We had also good results which you will hear in some of our other key businesses.  

On the merger integration front, we continue to make very good progress as you have heard us talk before. We have been through a lot of mergers both Jamie and I and our management teams, we're moving at a faster pace than we have in all the others that I have experienced. There are no big issues left out there. So when I add it all up and look at where we are today from a strategic perspective, in other words, why did we do this merger, and from an integration perspective, I am even more comfortable and confident about where this firm will be in terms of its power, its potential, and its future. So with that, let me turn it over to Dina.  

DINA DUBLON, CFO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Thank you very much, Bill. Thank you for coming in and for tuning in, I guess, the meeting seems there are quite a few of you on the phone. As Bill mentioned, this is the last time for me to participate in the review of results for J.P. Morgan Chase. I have been in this role for over 5 years. This is my 24th quarter as I was counting it yesterday evening. I have learned a lot in the role from my colleagues, from you, investors and from research analysts and I have made lots of friends. I had good times and tough times as you all know. I have grown up some and I find this to be a very grinding role and I am ready to move on.  

Mike Cavanagh, as Bill highlighted, is ready and eager to move in. I have been working very closely with him and enjoying it. He has, I will say to the people listening in, is very capable and dedicated financial staff in the Company and very great coaching from experienced management around him. Whether it is Heidi, Charlie who is here in the room, Jamie, all CFOs at some point in their career. He will do very well for us as shareholders, it is over 50% of my wealth counting every bit of it that is in the Company stock. So with that, good luck to Mike. Thank you very much for your support.  

I will make one more comment generally. The case for owning and buying the stock is not just 1 quarter or for that matter, this quarter as a result, it is about the prospects for creating value in the long term. We are very well positioned for that, both in our competitive position, in our ability to deliver future savings and management's ability overall to execute. So again, thank you for your support.  

I will provide an overview of results and Jamie will follow up with the discussion of lines of business. I am looking for the slide. I apologize. This is the disclaimer obviously. Here I am on the agenda. So Jamie will follow up with a discussion of lines of business, merger update and near-term outlook, as well as the Q&A that will follow. It is a difficult quarter to understand on the basis of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which has combined results in the third quarter compared to historical J.P. Morgan Chase alone. We have provided pro forma results from prior periods restating to include Bank One purchase accounting organizational changes and various accounting conforming entries.  

I will not repeat what Bill has said. This is a disappointing quarter. I will talk to some of the issues up front. The balance sheet, however, I do want to highlight is strong and stronger with litigation reserves, high loss reserves, lower and better rated commercial loans. We have over 30% reduction in large corporate loans in the IB and very strong capital. We have, as Bill mentioned, significant progress on the merger.  

Moving from that to the actual results, reported net income of 1.4 billion or 39 cents a share. Nonoperating charges after tax of 740 million or 21 cents, consisting of merger costs and conforming accounting. On the conforming accounting side, that's the charge of 450 million pretax. We have card reserves on the credit card business were increased by 720 million. A similar increase will take place in the fourth quarter. We have reclassified Bank One's retained interest in securitizations to loans. Other loss reserves of about 400 million. We released about 400 million in other loss reserves. We released it as a nonoperating increase to earnings to conform to the new approach of estimating credit losses.  

Operating income was $2.2 billion or 60 cents comparing it to historical J.P. Morgan Chase at 85 cents and 78 cents in the second and third quarter of last year. A line of business results, still comparing the third quarter combined to historical J.P. Morgan. So just taking 1 line here as an example, the third line, card services, you see doubling of income. This is obviously just the fact that we now show combined results versus J.P. Morgan stand-alone. For the firm, operating results comparing to J.P. Morgan historical show 20% or 30% increase in the bottom line.  

The presentation from here on provides comparisons to pro forma results the prior periods. Same as filed in the 8-K on October 1, and again this morning. For the quarter, we have the same operating results obviously 2.2 billion and 60 cents a share, but now compared to pro forma, earnings are down 23% from the second quarter and 9% from the third quarter. Earnings per share after adjusting for the number of shares and purchase accounting in prior periods, it is also significantly lower. Return on equity was 8% for the quarter and return on equity net of goodwill only 14%. We need to earn in excess of 18% on tangible common to earn 11% on book equity or break even on our cost of equity. The challenge this quarter was the revenue expense equation, as you can see, that is highlighted on the top comparing it let's say to the second quarter, steep revenue decline without offsetting decline in expenses.  

Spending a moment on expenses, I want to first on the top left side of the slide, to establish a base for understanding the expense trend. We reconciled between second quarter '04 combined expenses which is just adding the 2 organizations together and the pro forma second quarter, which is 400 million higher than the combined expenses because of accounting reclassifications and purchase accounting. Expenses in the third quarter at 8.6 billion were actually down 200 million from pro forma expenses in the second quarter. Merger savings and compensation drove the expense -- drove expenses down. The only business with any sequential growth in expenses was credit cards. Driven by acquisition, we have Circuit City, conversion costs, marketing increases, the bottom line of the card business is higher this quarter despite, obviously, the expense increase.  

Expenses were up 680 million from the third quarter last year. And after merger savings of 140 million, up in excess of $800 million. We provide the reasons for it, we explain, but not necessarily justified. Acquisitions like Zurich Life, EFS, Circuit City, contribute over 150 million to expenses as well as revenues. Business growth an additional 100 million. We are incurring higher technology costs and we have software write-downs in the quarter. In part from evaluating functionality and use of systems primarily in investor services. We also have reduced levels of capitalization as more of the work force is integrating rather than developing systems, costs that otherwise would have been capitalized. In total, this contributes over 200 million to increase in expenses.  

Compensation costs are up, 240 million, 2 key drivers amortization of prior year's stock grants, expensing of options and the impact of unifying compensation plans for the Company. Generally, increasing cash and reducing future-year amortizations. Reduced originations in home finance also result in lower FAS 91 deferral of expenses contributing to compensation expenses. Management is very focused on managing expenses. Some of what you see this quarter is temporary in nature, merger savings should be more visible as we progress with the integration.  

I am going to the next slide. This is again a summary schedule showing the contributions of each of the 6 lines of business and the corporate sector to the decline in consolidated operating results. Relative to the third quarter, or the second quarter, you can see the steep reduction in Investment Banking. Jamie will discuss results for each of the lines of business. I want to just for a moment cover the large increase in loss in the corporate sector. The loss in the corporate sector was 219 million, it was over 100 million to 160 million larger loss than prior periods. Lower revenues and higher expenses. What else. Corporate sector includes private equity gains both from J.P. Morgan Partners and OEP, our treasury activities and retained unallocated corporate expenses.  

Private equity gains were 235 million, lower than prior quarters. We have had some large single gains. The portfolio is down to about $8 billion from close to 10 billion a year ago, and will continue to decline. In the second quarter and the third quarter, we would use our investment securities portfolio to restructure the Company's exposure to rising rates. That reduced the NII in corporate by about 250 million for the quarter, creating, to use a Jamie term, earnings in storage. We could add to earnings by increasing the portfolio. Retained expenses of 500 million include the expenses to run private equity and treasury, but mostly technology and other functional support that we consider excessive costs. That increased this quarter because of technology and compensation driving a negative income variance. And with that, Jamie, it is yours.  

JAMIE DIMON, PRESIDENT, COO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Dina, thank you very much. I also want to add my thanks to Dina for her service to this Company. She is a consummate professional, she has been great with me for the 10 months we worked together. And I am talking about for hours and hours each day. She has been great with Mike Cavanagh in this transition period so it's really greatly appreciated. And J.P. Morgan is also sponsoring a dinner for her, most of you have invites for, for one of her favorite causes. And your stock, Dina, is at 50%, we are going to drive that ratio up to 67%.  

DINA DUBLON: I am all for it!  

JAMIE DIMON: That means we have to double the price, folks, if you didn't get that. I am going to give you a review of each line of business and tell you a little bit about the financials in it, a little bit about the view of the business and a little bit about a merger update. I'm going to give you the good and the bad, you will see it all. I'm going to give you a merger update in the non-business related stuff, an outlook for the Company and, obviously ,we will close with Q&A and David Coulter is here and Charlie Sharp is here, so at least 2 of the big businesses are here if you have additional questions.  

Let me start by saying I agree with Bill, the terrible results, we don't feel good about it. But there is some good news. We think the opportunity is great, I hope when you finish looking at these businesses, you will feel the same way. And that the merger itself is going as well as any merger could possibly be going. We are making a lot of good, important, long-term decisions and hopefully you will feel that too. While the earnings are bad, the balance sheet is actually in much better shape, much quicker and we feel very good about that. The disclosures, I think the disclosures seen here, we are required to go GAAP, pro forma, we are making a lot of disclosures to give clarity to the businesses and a feel for the businesses, I think they are fabulous. A lot of financial people here by the way, who have literally worked, and if I said every weekend for the last couple weekends, I probably wouldn't be exaggerating at all.  

DINA DUBLON: For the last 10 months.  

JAMIE DIMON: For the last 10 months, yeah. I hope you agree with us and they will get better over time, but I think they are really magnificent.  

I am on page 11 for those of you on the phone. Some have covered the Investment Bank in a little bit of detail, that repeating a lot of what people said. Fixed income, obviously the big disappointment, it was worse in the Street, not worse than everybody. If I was roughly going to give you a feel, it's about a third mix. We are not large in commodities. Energy, about a third client volume flow, the way we mea sure it. We think that that was probably common to the Street or at least by our own read of it. And a third of it was our own trading positions, I'm not going to go into them, but we were obviously on the wrong side of a few of the markets.  

As Bill said, Investment Banking fees very strong. And you look down below, number 1, syndicated loans, number 2 global announced M&A, if you back out Bank One as number 5, number 3 global debt and equity, it is a powerful banking franchise which we will grow over time. To go -- and the revenue lines we are showing by markets, so it's the fixed income business, the equity business, equity had a very good quarter and we hope to continue to grow and build that business. There is a line there called "credit portfolio" that is the return on the loans, NII and most of the loans, not all of them, and the way we hedge and managed other credit exposures so there is trading in there, but it's basically credit derivatives on both sides. That number by the way is down substantially.  

I think there is good news and there's bad news there. The good news is loans are down from 66 billion to 46. Loans are a little bit of a lost leader in this business. If you look at Bank One, J.P. Morgan combined from a couple of years ago is probably down 60%. I didn't go check. So obviously we want to get paid on these loans. The other great news, nonperformers are down and this is a great number, from a year ago 3.6 billion to 1 billion. Loan loss reserves are a very strong 4.8%, remember in the large core of business, these are -- well they are not always risky, they are large lumpy losses and $20 billion of equity, a obviously sub-part 12% return which could easily average 20% is where I would put it at a minimum. And obviously we want to get there.  

I would caution you when you do your models for the future, take the credit line, we will return to normal costs, you can calculate your own numbers, I will put it in 60 or 70 basis points, probably something under $100 million a quarter. From the positive numbers you have been seeing quarter-after-quarter from both prior Bank One and J.P. Morgan and the combined.  

Couple of other quick points here. There have been changes in management, Bill mentioned it. And obviously we get a lot of calls and a lot of rumors out there. Most of all those things that happened here had nothing to do with me. VAR is down, that wasn't because we were driving it down. I would tell you we have a very powerful franchise. Most of the decisions being made were basically being made before I was deeply involved. VAR is down, it had nothing to do with me. I think taking trading risk is fine as long as you get paid. That is the issue here. We are going to build this business relentlessly. We believe in it. We have a great global platform and we will keep on growing it. And I am sure there are additional questions and Dave Coulter will be here to help answer them when we get there.  

Page 12, retail business, this is the consolidated retail business. On page 13, I will give you detail on branches and then on home finance. This is consolidated. I just want to say we show a 25% return, obviously it is higher like the branch business and we haven't given you this detail, closer to the 34, 40% and so we are going to start bringing out some more detail in the future. On the bottom, there are 2 kind of the smaller businesses, I want to talk about this real quick. Insurance, remember, this is our Bank One purchased Zurich Life Insurance, it will make about $100 million a year, we purchased it for $500 million. Very comfortable with it.  

Auto business, $53 billion of auto loans, and we've made a few strategic changes in education to in effect do more of it ourselves and retain more of the profits. That should stay in auto and education there. The loan business itself is very tough right now and the margins are very low, so you should expect -- well, we're up 5% year-over-year, you should expect it will probably be down in the future. Auto leases are down 24%. That is a blessing, it is a terrible business. We will do some, but we are going to be very careful on what we do there.  

If you go to the next page, the branch business, the consumer business, you know, I think this is a great story and, you know, if you look at the details and the facts, the growth in this business has been pretty much as good as the best people out there. So we've had -- and we're continuing to invest. We have had 566,000 new accounts this year. Pretty much the same run rate this quarter. Average loans are up, small business loans are up 4%, we've opened up 100 -- 97 branches this year. We have plans in place to open more. It is not irrational response to competitors. We have the people, the real estate, we can acquire it, we can buy it, we can build it and we are reducing the time to profitability. Core deposit of 9% year-over-year, they're flat quarter-over-quarter. A little of that, believe it or not we had some money called the hot money hedge funds buying into some of our deposit accounts, we've pushed out about $2 billion. We are not going to run the business that way.  

We have been investing in personal bankers, up 442. We continue drive efficiency, if you look at some of the numbers, a lot of the excess cost is going out and paying for the growth. We still will start the rebranding sometime next year, we will give you a more detailed scheduled when we have it. Obviously, it is expensive, a lot of it's, not all, but some of it is in the merger cost. We are doing a better job in cross selling. We have Chase's first mortgage products, which are going to be put into all of our branches. The opportunities are very good. We have made a lot of change here. Chase branches in New York, the work week went from 35 hours to 40 hours. We've extended the store branches by 2 hours, and we have changed how we are going to do compensation with much more specific sales base as opposed to against goal versus budget. It's a big change for a field. Obviously, there will be some pluses and minuses to that that we did it all at once. We just wanted to get to where we were going.  

Small business, we are great in small business. About a third of the profits and we don't break out profits for you yet coming out of the small business segment. We expect continued good news coming out of the branch business. Home finance, I am not going to spend a lot of time on. One of the new disclosures you have here, page 14, is we broke out prime production and servicing. The production of mortgages, not home equity, production of mortgages and the services of those mortgages, the interesting thing I think if you note, and we do give you pro forma data going back, earned 100 million this quarter. 237 million was earned by the consumer lending business. That's 63 -- 66 billion home equity loans, up 21% year-over-year. Owing up a couple percents sequentially. Both companies are doing a good job of growing that business, we intend to grow it. We also retained arms et cetera there. We think it as great product. We want to learn to get getter at managing some of this business and, obviously, the prime business is going to be a lot more volatile, [inaudible] in the MSR, which I think we have done a good job managing, but it is a volatile asset and the flows evolve until you can see that prime production origination is down substantially year-over-year and that will go up or down depending on the interest rates.  

Couple of things and we will be giving more detail in the future. More profitability by the channels. There's a lot more we can do to grow and understand this business. Couple of key other points. We did stop originating mortgage finance, I mean, manufactured housing. I will talk about that in a minute. We stopped selling subprime loans, I think we have about 13 billion in subprime loans. We stopped selling it and we are taking gains of about 50 million a quarter. So it's a deliberate action, we no longer have gains at 50 million a quarter. This is the first quarter you are starting to see some of that. We think it will just grow profits over time, it is far more economic than selling for profit.  

And the car business is also a good story. Revenues are up year-to-year. Margins were up 19 basis points, they're down 27 sequentially. We are already applying the knowledge of Chase to the Bank One portfolio and the knowledge of Bank One to the Chase portfolio. Credit quality was excellent, 488, down substantially. We don't really expect to stay down at 488, we expect it to bump up a little bit. The reduction was mostly driven by lower bankruptcies. Our return on outstandings is 2.05%. That is sub par. It should be 3% or more. Hopefully you will see sequential improvements next year as we get -- and some of it is going to come from cost saves over time. This is a powerful business, $130 billion of average and managed loans up 4% up 3% sequentially. Not bad relative to the industry, not great. Charge volume of 12%, and it is 4% sequentially. That is good, very good numbers. Remember, spend drives a lot of the results and we can put a lot of money into our spend. With Continental miles, United miles, a lot of cards issued, 96 million cards issued, up 11%, though it's flat sequentially.  

We did not break out any detail on merchant processing, we are very large in it. It is a great business, we will give you more on that next time. Higher marketing expenses, by the way, that was completely deliberate as we run a better business, we find more opportunities in how to make money in cards. So there's 75 million of the increase in expense was higher marketing. On the merger side, we did convert. I forgot the date now, but 10 million credit card from FDR to TSS in the same day. We started to print 10 million statements a month out of Ohio. Bill Harrison and I took a visit to a very impressive printing plant, which sometime late next year we will be doing 100 million statements a month and we think we will do them very cost effectively. The next part of TSS, Bank One's remaining part, 40 million cards will be done in a couple of weeks and they are already in all the test modes of that and we feel pretty good about that. So we expect good ongoing results from the card business.  

Commercial banking, another, I think another very strong business. We don't give you a lot of detail here. Returns at 25%. The only caution I give you on that is a little bit driven by extraordinary low credit costs. You would expect standardized credit costs not to be 14 but maybe 50 or 60 million a quarter. Through a cycle, that's your job to estimate when that cycle will happen. We feel good about the business. Very strong balance sheet. Also $50 billion in loans, we have had some modest growth, for the first time in the last couple quarters, which is nice to see, but $65 billion of deposits and the number which I find very surprising is that 500 -- 499 million of TSS revenue in this business. Some of that revenue shows up on NII because it is deposit based, but $500 million of the 833 is TSS, it's not loan driven. So I think we can build a very profitable business. We also think there are $100 million of revenues, and maybe next time we'll give you some more details. And we actually went through kind of name by name. Investment Banking gross revenues driven out of this business and we are just getting going. And I think that could be a major competitive advantage both for the commercial bank and for the Investment Bank and hopefully you will see some of that more in the future.  

If you go to page 17, Treasury Services, $96 million in earnings down 29 million. We are very large and very good in this business. Little over 8 trillion of assets under custody. $139 billion deposits, up 20%. That's a measure of the treasury management services. And also provides enormous liquidity for this Company. So when I show you the balance sheet in this stack and I talk about it, keep in mind the amount of deposits, real deposits this Company has to help fund itself. And we haven't broken any trade or commercial card revenue here, but we think that it is driving some of the year-over-year increase, we'll probably give you more detail in the future. Dina did mention that there were $85 million of software writeoffs and impairments relating to how we analyze each line of business and decision we made here, we don't really expect that to be recurring. So Treasury should do a little bit better going forward.  

Asset and Wealth Management, another great -- oh, Treasury is managed, by the way when we broke out for you, which I think is important, is that the overhead ratio is 86%, the margin is 14. It should be a lot more than that. We will tell you more about that down the road and we hope to get there.  

Asset and Wealth Management pretax margin in my opinion should also be higher, actually James Staley is here too, so the questions for that you can feel free to ask of him. This is our private bank, institutional money management, it's the retail network private client services, 735 billion of assets under management, up 5% year-over-year, down 2% sequentially. It's bud in the private bank, private client $25 million in loans, up 12%, 39 billion in deposits, up 23%. So I think we will build this business very strong over time.  

One quick update, Highbridge. We did announce we are going to be acquiring a majority stake in Highbridge. Just give you 3 good reasons why we think it's a good thing to do. Number 1, top quality people. Ask anybody. And I think that is critical. Number 2, they built it just the way I think, if you were going to build a hedge fund business for a bank, you build it. Multiple funds, you are not really beholding to any manager, different strategies, with really intelligent asset allocation, so if we were going to do it, and we do do some, we would have done it exactly this way. And the third is, its worked, the financial side has worked where they have to do well to do well, and if they don't do well we won't pay as much. We think it is the right thing for both parties that we are in this thing together.  

Let me give you some detail on page 19 on merger cost. Remember the merger costs are the lines that we do break out, not in operating earnings. We said it would be about 4 billion, that is probably one of the roughest numbers we are still giving you. And we said about 3 billion will go to the income statement, about 1 billion will be purchase gap. We still think that's true. That could change. And we gave you the timing down here, we have always said it's going to be lumpy, the only difference from last time is a little bit more got pushed out. And it really just depends on when we actually close facilities and put real estate on the market, et cetera. So pretty much what we told you.  

Merger saves, page 20, about -- we said 3 billion. It is about the same, we said, what I was really focused on is the 2.2 billion run rate at the end of next year, about the same. we said -- what we have said $500 million in '04, it's a little bit less than that, it is 400. And where we are trying to get here, I am not going to spend a lot of time on this slide because it is a little noisy, is that we think some of you in your models double count when we say we are going to do this much in this year and that much in that year. So we're talking about run rates, and Ann is here and the Investor Relations team to make sure you don't double count those numbers. In the full-year '05, the total saves of 1.875 billion, incremental over -- but not incremental over last year. So what drives some of these things and we think we are already making all the decisions that will be driving it, in real estate, benefits, head count, consolidation of operating centers, so we are actually doing a lot the actions that you will see the results in the future. And when we finish budgets, we will be able to give you much more detail kind of by area and the head count.  

Remember head count, for example, in fact if you go to the next page, page 21, I am sorry -- head count is down 5,000 from the end of the year. That's good. That shows we are making a lot of progress. We haven't done it because we moved a lot of staff around. We can give you more detail next time. But the head count, the 12,000 is still there. When we do the budgets we will probably break out where we are adding, we are adding I think far more than 1,000 in branches. We'll gain a little bit in the Investment Bank. We'll be adding 4,000 and taking back the outsourcing from IBM and we will be saving the 12,000, so you contract and we will try to give you some more information.  

We have these conforming accounting adjustments and these are requirements to put the Company on common accountings. We didn't do things exactly the same. We told you, this is probably my conservatism, 1.3 billion to 1.5 billion all this year. We now think that number will be 1.2 billion. We told you the card decertification would be 1.4 billion. Remember that ends up in loan loss reserves. We were required to split it into 2 quarters, that was not our desire, I would have done it all at once, but that is GAAP accounting. We had some other benefits on other low loss allowances, so we now think the new estimate is 1.2 billion and that's probably a firmer estimate than the 1.3 billion to 1.5 billion. I also spoke about last time potential policy and business decisions that could also drive additional losses of 200 to 400. We now would say the number is 0 to 200, again, it is my conservatism. I will tell you in a minute where I think why that might be the case. It might be zero at this point.  

Next page is also for your models, and the only point we are making here is that there was amortization of intangibles already in both J.P. Morgan and Bank One before the deal. The deal added incremental amortization. We look at your models and try to see what some people are doing. And we think some people doubled up. Some people didn't catch the first one. We try to isolate it by line of business to help you do it so you get exactly the amortization as both from the deal and what existed before. If you have questions of this, Ann will be here to help you take you through some of the accounting side.  

The balance sheet is in very good shape, 8.5% Tier 1. Very strong credit reserve, 2.7% -- 6% wholesale loan, 1.62 consumer loan. We conform methodologies. We did it in a very diligent, detailed, reasonable, rational way so we feel pretty good about how we do it. We have a substantial litigation reserves. Again, I look at quality of capital, not just whether you have capital. What I will say about litigation reserves, adequate and sufficient. We will make required disclosures if we have to about material changes, material lawsuits, et cetera. But other than that we are not going to be disclosing a number that we think is confidential competitive information.  

The Board did authorize a $6 million stock buy back. You can see we were not aggressive this quarter. Part of that was to give ourselves more comfort and building up our capital and getting the balance sheet to where we want it to be. We do have the capital flexibility now. It is very strong, so when you run your miles, there will be plenty of cash flow capability either to buy back stock, which we'll do opportunistically or invest in our businesses, et cetera. I also meant to say on the cost saves, the 3 billion is still a good number. We were making a lot of battlefield decisions to -- where we're going to make investments in data centers et cetera, and we don't want you double counting the cost saves. The 3 billion we really expect to get, but we have to make investments, we have a bunch of stuff. So I wouldn't be more aggressive than that if I were you.  

Private equity as a percent of capital is down 12.5%, and the way we measure it is good will -- equity minus good will. So it's going to get down eventually to a $6.5 billion number from the current number of 8.5. The balance sheet is very liquid. We have extensively went through capital reserves, risk process. We are going to take one more crack at it in budgets, so we really believe in it. But I think the fact that we [inaudible] you should feel pretty good about.  

We have done extensive earnings and risk reporting, conforming how both companies are doing it, in retail and credit card and obviously across the Company, we are fairly neutral to interest rates today. It did cost us money to deleverage and to reposition. So some of the NII reduction as we're make those decisions. And again, as Dina said, it is a little of the earnings in store, we can add back the 30 billion in Treasury investments tomorrow or today if we wanted to, but we think the balance sheet is in good shape. While the earnings are lower, it drives higher quality earnings. We have taken some business decisions and put this on the balance sheet page because I think as an outside shareholder we get asked the questions, is it going make a lot of change in the businesses? Well, they're not material. And we have done a lot of business views and you know, well, we made some announcements to stop originating mortgage housing.  

Auto leasing, that's the one place I do worry about on that business policy about. It is a tough business and we think we are add quality reserved but we are looking at that every month. We love the small business. We should have rephrased the certain small businesses. We love the small business. We got out of financing, check cashers and money remitters, and we did take, I think it was an additional charge of $15 million, and we're reducing selling some of the third party private equity funds, all this has strengthened our balance sheet for the future.  

Merger milestones. I think that you've seen a lot of them in this number 1, the financial reporting. I do think it is important how to report the numbers, track the numbers, book the numbers, both the disclosures internally, expense allocation and we've done most of that and it's leading to actually much better business views and obviously stronger budgeting. The holding company merge, I talked about the TSS conversion, we've merged the broker dealers, we've made the outsourcing decision. It is important we made it quick so we can start building for the future. The card bank merger took place already.  

We've made a lot of HR decisions. And the HR decisions are critical because they kind of put us on a common framework. Both companies actually had this 75% stock ownership by the executive committee, which we think is good. We've conformed all of our health and welfare benefits. It is hard to do, the firms were different, we were rational, we were economic, we were efficient. There will be some benefits to that. That starts next year. We conformed some of our comp tables. We had different stock equity tables and we have 1 table for the whole Company. I think it is critical for the Company that I think it's a very good thing we have 1 table. People will start taking 10% of their bonus if it's 50,000 or more and restrict the stock and that goes up to 35% if it's over $750,000, so we feel pretty good about this. We didn't eliminate options, but we are not going to use it. We will be much more rigorous in how and when and why we use them. So you will see -- probably hear a little bit more about that in the future.  

The big events you should -- and we made the branding decision. We should have put that on there, because from the vantage point of shareholders and analysts that decision is the type of thing that if it goes on too long you may know that it is causing problems in the Company. I am on page 26, big milestones, mid-November, we will be merging the large J.P. Morgan state chartered New York Bank with the large Bank One OCC Chart Ohio Bank. It's a big deal, it takes a lot of work and we hope to get it done in November. Brand new change will be next year, but we are actually starting to put them -- make the decision today.  

I have mentioned the card conversion. We, the strategic data center, obviously, Bank One has just built 2 massive ones in Wilmington, which I recently was at. We will build what we need to have the best systems in operations of any financial services company in the world. And that includes we may need another one in Europe. The 2 big conversions, the 2 really big ones would be the Texas conversion. Think of it as very much, what we did in Michigan and Illinois. Bank One is kind of big bang. Doesn't mean it all happens in one day. Because a lot of things happen right prior to the conversions, but we are tentatively, tentatively scheduling that for late in the third quarter of '05 and we are tentatively scheduling the tri-state one for something like 9 months after that. Those will be the big 2 that we are working on.  

Let me just give you a view of the outlook looking forward a little bit and then we'll open the floor to questions and comments. Trading, we remain cautious, extremely cautious about trading. Obviously, we have some visibility to that. And it bounces all over the place. I am going to move to the next quarter. Not about next year. I think next year you all should have your own view of how the economy and the trade markets will be doing. The investment pipeline remains strong. Obviously, it is also driven by the market, but we have some visibility of that for the next couple of months.  

Private equity, we now have $8 billion invested in private equity. If I were you, I would be thinking about a number of 300 million a quarter, it's very lumpy. Our visibility of that is on a very short run. You deserve a better return than that. But we are conservative. We can always take always take bond loss, we can always do other things, because it is very efficient to take bond losses and tax loss when you have tax gains, so some of your models are different. So it is hard for us to always describe, but we kind of look at this a little bit differently. That through the quarter gross, we also have 300 million a year of expenses. So, it is even kind of worse and we're going to try to make that a more efficient business like all the other businesses.  

Consumer small business. I think we expect kind of a continued story of decent growth and continued investment. Home finance, continued moderation, particularly in production of prime mortgages, from lower refis and obviously, rates go up, they will go down. Auto I already mentioned. It's tough, spreads are very and leases will be coming down. Volumes will probably be coming down because spreads are so tight. Card, we expect kind of modest continued growth and seasonal -- remember it's seasonal business, fourth quarter is seasonally strong. Credit trends, retail stable, cards flat. We probably expect a little bit higher next quarter, but we are not predicting any major improvement of trends. Wholesale eventually will return normal credit cost and we think that should be your timing. We don't know when it is going to happen, but you know it's going to happen over time, so next quarter expect positive credit results still, some time you should see that diminish.  

So the bottom line is, while we had some terrible earnings results, we feel very good about the merger progress, the balance sheet and the future opportunities of the Company and we will work relentlessly to make it all pay off for all of our shareholders and employees. So I will stop there and open the floor to questions or comments. And Ron? Ron? I am sorry. Are you guys doing the phones from over there.  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions).  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: [Audio difficulties] candor and I think given the changes in CFOs at a number of leading banks that are coincidentally going on simultaneously, she set a bar very high that we hope in the investment community that others will be able to live up to. So thank you very much. And, Jamie, you have been quoted in the press recently talking about going beyond this deal to possibly looking forward to other mergers. I guess I have a couple of questions in that regard.  

JAMIE DIMON: Don't even ask it. I am going to tell you. Bloomberg follows you around, I have a reporter who covers 2 companies. They have nothing much to do except to write gossip columns all day long. Bill and were in Chicago, we were doing a conference for 1,500 business people there, and I mentioned -- Bill was talking about how important execution is and that's what we are going to focus on, and I was kind of making a joke that we said we were going to do that, though we recently started talk about more acquisitions. And it got printed like that was a serious statement, that was not. We will do small ones that make sense to the Company, don't effect the major stuff.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: So you have no thoughts about bigger deals in the near.  

JAMIE DIMON: No, we are completely deployed right now.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: How long do you think you will stay completely deployed before you can look at something beyond that.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think as we are making more accomplishments and we know we are doing and get some of these convergence behind us. The heard of the bar will come down over time. The exceptions would be something like a Highbridge, and there are a couple of small ones that are really neat fill-in ones that don't stop us from finishing the conversions, improving the results at card or improving the results at retail, et cetera. So we are not going to take our eye off the ball.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: What is your broader view of how the wonderful platform that you are creating fits into the broader consolidation of financial services in the U.S. and around the world?  

JAMIE DIMON: You know, Bill may want to add something to this. We are focused now in execution. There will be continued consolidation around the world. It's been going on for 20 years in investment banking, brokerage banks. It has become transborder in a lot of businesses, not all businesses. I'm not saying all of them would be rational. The winners will be the people both who have the strategy and the vision and execute well. And right now we are kind of in the execution mode.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thanks.  

JAMIE DIMON: Mike Mayo?  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Yeah, I asked last quarter, what do you think about the risk profiles of the Company. Last quarter you said it seems fine now, but you are deleveraging and that hurt a little bit, you reduced value at risk and that hurt a little bit, you're not doing auto leases as much and that hurt a little bit. So where so you stand now with 3 more months looking at the firm. What do you think the risk profile and if you could address derivatives in conjunction with that.  

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, I think you have to separate trading decisions and changes in the market to react to. You know, the auto lease business, we don't think it is a great business. Auto loans have been very tough and margins are squeezed and I think it's a perfectly rational thing when margins are very squeezed you don't write as much. The train decisions were not mine. We have good controls and good processes. We have a great team. Start with Dave Coulter, Bill Winters and Steve Black who make those decisions on the day-to-day basis. That is what drives the VAR, it was no one telling them from the top, take VAR down. It was their own view of the world and their positions and client flows, et cetera and --  

MIKE MAYO: [Inaudible question - microphone inaccessible].  

JAMIE DIMON: It is 89 today. It was 103 last quarter so it probably was the peak. Including our 89, by the way is, we do include the VAR on the credit portion of derivatives, and the VAR on the 30 billion of stuff we do to hedge the loan portfolio. So I am not sure it is totally comparable to everybody else. I know trading is a risky business, but it is a function of good people, good controls, good ideas, good client, good flow. I put it in the same category as everything else.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thanks. I don't want to beat a dead horse. You talked about the fact that the change of the VAR sort of came from the bottom and up everything. That being said, is there a case to be made that there was an attempt in the trading businesses to take advantage of the transitional nature of the timing here to scrutinize carrying values of position, take them to more conservative levels and that maybe there is something there.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think that would be a gross error for anyone to think that the trading numbers had anything to do with something like that. I think we had bad trading and lower client volumes. Had nothing to do with anything else.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: And the repositioning that you talked about at the corporate level in order to become more interest rate neutral, there is no chance that that might have bled into the investment bank results as well.  

JAMIE DIMON: Absolutely not. They were completely unrelated decisions. I'm not sure the investment bank even knew about the other $30 billion we reduced the portfolio by. They are made by different people for different reasons.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay.  

JAMIE DIMON: Anything to add to that?  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: David? Go ahead. You got the microphone already, go ahead.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you. 3 questions. Dina referred to excessive costs in corporate. They clearly went up a lot. Are those going to be managed, do you have a target for getting those down? 2, can you amplify on the creating earnings and storage along with the balance sheet restructuring, I didn't quite get that. And then third, you were talking about on page 13, the great Brent story and you said we will build it and buy it and it goes along to Ron's question. Can you amplify on that.  

JAMIE DIMON: If I said build and buy it, I should have just said build it. If they have a branch network they wanted to buy somewhere, I wouldn't be opposed to that depending on what it was and where it was. On corporate expense, there are several pieces there, the performance of the private equity business, there is the Treasury managed kind of NII-related type of stuff and there's retained corporate expense and other things that go through corporate, and it is going to be lumpy for awhile. And it is the same lumpiness of what I talked about the deal the merger et cetera, yes, we expect to drive it down. We are in the middle of budgets now so it is hard for me to tell you next quarter, but I think last time we said it would be a $2 billion expense number, which will be driven down over time. It is already in the 3 billion of expense drive down, don't double count it. And your other question was earnings in store. Earnings in store to me, if you reduce the size of your balance sheet by $100 billion and obviously it drives up Tier 1 capital, in our case $100 billion which could drive it up 10%. If you do that you are going to lose a lot of earnings, you haven't lost the earnings, you can add back the portfolio, so leverage to me is a 2-way street and when people use leverage, they should understand that. We could take our Tier 1 down to 7.5, add 50 or $75 billion of portfolio and have a lot more NII. It may be the wrong thing to do for the future of the Company. That's what I mean by that. David?  

DAVID, ANALYST: Jamie, you talked about some management changes in the Investment Bank.  

JAMIE DIMON: I would put interest rate exposure in the same category. One is just the size of the balance sheet, the other one is how you finance the balance sheet. You can short fund part of it which we haven't and easily say why don't you do X, Y or Z and create this much more earnings and you could do that number, all other things being equal, in your head. Swap from the 10 year to LIBOR. Do $20 billion and you're going to make an extra so much money.  

DAVID: You talked about some management changes at the investment bank and how that might relate to trading results in the future. Can you draw a little clearer map?  

JAMIE DIMON: No, I think Bill said that some of the management changes related to some the things going on over the last several months and Dave can amplify on that. I don't think it had anything to do with the future per se.  

BILL HARRISON: Let me add a little bit of color. We don't like the trading results this quarter for sure. That is no surprise. We didn't like them in the second quarter either relatively. So we around the end of the year, actually prodded by a few of you who said you guys aren't doing well enough. Stepped back and said how are we doing, are we gaining shares sort of product by product. And I guess I would characterize our results is about average over the last 3 or 4 quarters relatively. We think we should be average so Steve Black, Bill Winters spent a lot of time product by product, and concluded we needed to do something about it. We made a change recently and in North America, that some of you may not have paid enough attention to, but we took Patrick Esquire [ph], best risk taker we have on a global basis, had been running the proprietary business for us and made him responsible for all trading in the Americas. We took the origination functions in equity capital markets and debt capital markets and combined those under Carlos Hernandez. That is a big change. Couple senior people we had as a result of that decided to do something else. And so, we have restructured the fixed income side in North America. I am not going to predict earnings for you going forward, but we think we have the right people in the right places. And we did, I think face up to the reality of, we are big. We generate a lot of money from that, but we think we should be doing better and this is an attempt to try and do so and we'll have to see how it works.  

JAMIE DIMON: One more here and go to the phone. Go ahead.  

RYAN O'CONNELL, ANALYST: Thanks. Ryan O'Connell. David, just to follow up on that. As a result of the expense of the last several quarters, have you reconsidered the role of proprietary trading? I guess what I'm asking is, do you intend to do it better or are you thinking of reducing the scale of proprietary trading?  

DAVID COULTER, VICE CHAIRMAN, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Well, it's a question you always ask, because we like the client flow business and we talked about that in the past. Client flow in the third quarter was probably off a couple hundred million dollars for us. I would go with Jamie's characterization of about a third client flow, about a third that were not big in commodities and oil trading, and about a third proprietary trading, just not performing like we would like to see it. We do ask ourselves, are we putting enough resources on the client flow side, because that's been the growth model and I think will be the growth model going forward. If we did anything on the proprietary side, if I tell you today and you guys should all spend time with Steve Black and Bill Winters going forward, but if I told you today, we are probably looking at it realistically, we probably had a little bit of mandate creep, we probably had proprietary trading activities growing up or sort of mushrooming in a few places where we should have consolidated them. So a little more emphasis client flow, but we are in the risk taking business too.  

RYAN O'CONNELL: All right. When you talk about the proprietary trading, you are not talking about the pure proprietary trading, it is more of the risk taking associated with client trading is where the problem was. It wasn't the firm getting its own money on positions of like. Right? For the most part.  

JAMIE DIMON: Let me go ahead to the phone.  

OPERATOR: Our first question is coming from Andy Collins from Piper Jaffray.  

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: I hate to beat a dead horse on the Investment Bank. But incentive comp, I was wondering how that changes going forward and the expense structure, you know, variable versus fixed?  

JAMIE DIMON: I would just say the incentive was reduced somewhat proportionally according to the incentive comp plans that were in place which were based on performance. And some of that ran through the numbers and I forget the exact number on the expense side. Yes, compensation is down 180 million and mostly based upon kind of prior worked out budget comp plans.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. One other unrelated question on credit. Talked about mid 70's net charge-off ratio next year. I think you were high 80s this quarter.  

JAMIE DIMON: It will return in the large corporate, it will return to a normal basis which, you know, you could say is in the 60 or 70. You could do -- over time. That's not our estimate for next year. I'm saying that's normal to a cycle 70 or 80. So we look at the business, we should be earning good returns with that normal. Sometimes it will be lower and sometimes it will be higher.  

ANDY COLLINS: And the provisions covering that charge-off?  

JAMIE DIMON: We don't expect that to go up to that next quarter or even the first or second quarter next year.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay.  

JAMIE DIMON: But it could.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. And provisions will match net charge-offs more likely?  

JAMIE DIMON: You are talking about, which one are you talking about?  

ANDY COLLINS: Overall for the corporate.  

JAMIE DIMON: Are you talking about '05?  

ANDY COLLINS: Yes.  

JAMIE DIMON: We don't know yet. We are doing our own budgets and forecasting right now. We do expect the net will go up over time.  

ANDY COLLINS: Great. Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: Frank? You have more on the phone? Go ahead, Frank.  

FRANK, ANALYST: Just a question you had mentioned 20% return is what you thought should be the minimum in the Investment Bank over a cycle or over time. Given the increase in capital allocated to the Investment Bank, the question is how does that 20% come about? Is it through a substantial reduction in the capital allocated which means basically I think taking down the risk of the Investment Bank or does it come through improved efficiency or just having to get greater market share of whatever business is out there?  

JAMIE DIMON: I don't want to be remiss. If Bill Winters were here he would tell you the risk capital is not 20 billion it's a lot less. And we're going through that, we want to understand what we really believe the risk is in credit and market, operational, et cetera. And so that's kind of our work to fine tune it and make sure we are right. I think the 20 comes from flow, expenses. I think we can improve our margin just on the expense side. So they will get additional expense benefit as we run a more efficient Company and get some of these merger saves in there. Some of that will flow into their margin right off the bat. Other than that I think it is just executing on the strategy.  

ANDY COLLINS: [Inaudible question - microphone inaccessible]  

JAMIE DIMON: Well, then if you look at the pro formas, the Investment Bank did earn $1 billion a quarter. Several quarters of the last six or seven. Why don't you go to the phone. There are more questions on the phone.  

OPERATOR: Our next question Eric Caddle of Hovedi Capital.  

ERIC CADDLE, ANALYST, HOVEDI CAPITAL: Can you hear me?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes.  

ERIC CADDLE: Just wanted to follow up with a question on the Highbridge deal and maybe kind of related to your earlier comments on capital management. I think somebody had said that James Staley was there and maybe this is for him. But how did you think about in structuring that deal an outright acquisition of the stake in the Company versus some kind of distribution relationship or a joint venture that would have been less capital intensive but still would have gotten access to the great people, the diversified strategy, et cetera. You talked about your interest in buying back more stock, et cetera. How did you think about that with just as it related to the capital allocated?  

JAMIE DIMON: Remember, it is a 2-way street. There are 2 parties in here, so whatever you work out both have to agree to. Both parties felt it was important, both for the customers and for J.P. Morgan that the partners who built the place have a long term stake in staying and making it work and in growing the results. And so, having an earn out is the best way to do that over time. You know, if it was a pure cash out and they were leaving, we probably wouldn't have been interested and nor were they. They were interested in building a great institution, having institutionalized it, being proud of what they leave behind and who they merge it with.  

ERIC CADDLE: I guess I am asking more about not necessarily an earn out versus a cash out front. But some kind of relationship where you could have been the exclusive, you know, distributor of Highbridge funds or something like that and just sort of thinking about that versus, you know, owning a big stake in the fund.  

JAMIE DIMON: Well, I think -- go ahead.  

BILL HARRISON: It is part of an overall strategy to March with our client in the return space. We have a lot of alternatives, asset classes within J.P. Morgan asset management and we wanted to control our own destiny there. So simply having a distribution agreement, it didn't fit with the longer-term strategic goal of being a major player in the absolute return space.  

ERIC CADDLE: Thanks. That's helpful.  

OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Don Jones of Credit Suisse First Boston.  

DON JONES, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, thank you. I was curious about the provisions as they rose, it seems that the only jump in loan loss allowances made at the Investment Bank up to 1.8 billion from 740 million last quarter, what was that motivation from? It looks as though charge offs were down and compared assets were also lower.  

JAMIE DIMON: There's 2 things, number 1 is I think you are looking at the GAAP number from last quarter versus the actual number from this quarter. You have to go to the pro forma number last quarter which is probably 1.72 billion or there abouts, which includes Bank One's loan loss reserves. You are comparing apples to oranges a little bit and what we did on the corporate side, is that we looked at how both companies do it, which by the way is remarkably similar and expected losses, stress testing, how you look at potential for downgrade, industries you are particularly worried about and we put together what we thought was the best way to do it and then both companies want the best way in effect and that's the number you see today. So we were just trying to have what we thought was a great proper reserving for wholesale loans. That's the methodology, and it was very similar through both companies.  

DON JONES: Great. Second question, what airline exposures remain on the books that might be of concern to J.P. Morgan?  

JAMIE DIMON: I may misstate this. I don't think that they are material. You know, yes, there may be $100 million or something like that, Bank One has a little bit too. I think our biggest exposure to the airline industry is related to the credit card relation of United Airlines. Which is doing fine and we're growing it. But obviously, we have a stake in United Airlines staying and operating a healthy company.  

DON JONES: Okay. Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: We will take one more question from the field. There's one left here, we will take it from the room.  

OPERATOR: Final question from the phone lines is coming from David Stumpf of A.G. Edwards.  

DAVID STUMPF, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Good morning. I hate to ask about the rumor of the day, but yesterday obviously there was a lot of talk on the Street about Elliott Spritzer possibly targeting the derivative business. Jamie, any comment on that at all.  

JAMIE DIMON: Listen, I heard the rumor today too and it always reminds me of how these rumors travel in Wall Street so quick, it is unbelievable. Here is the important thing. I don't know what Elliott Spritzer is doing, so I couldn't possibly answer that question. I think it is incumbent upon everybody at every firm with any business to make sure you are doing this proper. Now you have got the procedures in place, you treat your customers properly, you're making transparent full disclosures, so I think it is just the norm of doing business. Someone finds there is wrongdoing in derivatives. I hope it is not us. But, obviously, a company should fix what they are doing wrong. So we are not, we heard the same rumors you heard, but we don't know about their legitimacy at all.  

DAVID STUMPF: Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: Any other questions from the room? Okay. One last one.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Something in the home finance side. Obviously the origination results and everything held up very, very well in the quarter. I was wondering if you could give us some sense of what the pipeline is looking like and how that business is doing.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think you've got to separate origination between home equity and home equity lines, which has been great and growing in both companies, and prime origination which is down, I think 50% and very volatile. In fact if you go to the statistical supplement you can see some of that. We show origination by channel. You can see some of that I believe. Did I answer that question? Yes. We appreciate you all coming today and hopefully we will give you better results in the future. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

Document FNDW000020041103e0ak000m9

