Q3 2009 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
13,308 words
14 October 2009
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to JPMorgan Chase third quarter 2009 earnings conference call. I will
now turn the call over to Mike Cavanagh, CFO of JPMorgan Chase.
MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Great. Good morning everybody. Thanks for joining Jamie
and I. We will go through the usual slide presentation that's available on the web. I refer you to slide 20 which
gives the usual forward-looking comments disclaimers for you to read at your own leisure.
With that, let us get started on the overall results on slide one, the highlights here. So we had $3.6 billion in net
income in quarter. That's earnings per share of $0.82 on revenues of $28.8 billion. I won't spend too much time
talking about where the results came from here because we will go through it business by business, but obviously
it was great strength in the Investment Bank, and strong performance in the Asset Management, Commercial
Bank and Retail Banking Businesses, as well as very strong results in our Corporate investment portfolio. The
backdrop again, though, is that credit costs remain elevated. You will see that on various degrees of flattening
and charge offs or slowing pace of increase, but nonetheless continue to be at high levels.
We added $2 billion to the consumer credit reserves, though, to bring the total credit reserves to $31.5 billion
dollars , which is obviously a very strong number both for the firm and each line of business. I will point that out as
we go through. Overall reserve to loans for the firm of 5.3%. Capital - very proud of the capital level of the
Company. Tier 1 common through the retention of those earnings, growth through $100 billion to $101 billion with
a Tier 1 common ratio of 8.2% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.2%. Obviously, very strong capital levels. Slide two
has everything I just described on it.
I will skip that and take us to slide three, the Investment Bank. Here let's walk through the results in the
Investment Bank. You see the circled number, the net income of $1.9 billion on revenues of a $7.5 billion for the
business overall. I will just make one clarifying statement up front that a couple of the items you have been
focused on in the past, together had an immaterial impact on the overall profit, the combination of two items. One
is the tightening of credit spreads, a spread on JPMorgan's name and counter-party credit spread, DVA CVA as
it's known, netted together for a modest net negative, and then we had gains of approximately $400 million,
mostly realized on those legacy leverage lending and mortgage positions, mostly leveraged loans.
Moving through, putting that aside let's move through the underlying real dynamics of the business. So
investment banking fee line $1.7 billion, up a bit year-over-year and off some from the record quarter that we had
last quarter, second quarter, where we booked something like $2.2 billion of investment banking fees. We
maintained the number one year-to-date rankings across all the major capital rate and categories, so the
Investment Banking franchise is doing quite well and continues to do so. The Fixed Income Markets line,
revenues of $5 billion, and that obviously has the gains on leveraged loans that I talked about, bringing the total
value of leveraged loans now carried on the books down to a market value of $2.2 billion or carried at less than
$0.40 on the dollar. That's a 26% reduction from last quarter. So, we are likely not to be talking about that any
more from this stage. And then, strong performance across most of the other products, really, in the Fixed Income
Markets area. Equity Markets, similar story, $941 million worth of revenues, particular strength ongoing in the
Prime Services segment there.
The last thing I will comment on in the Investment Bank is credit costs. You can see the credit costs of $379
million over on the left, and the explanation there is that that is charge offs of $750 million, partially offset by
release in allowance related to particular loans that got marked down in the quarter, for which we previously held
our marks in the form of reserves. That's just a geography swing leaving us with well marked on a net basis
Page 1 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

between reserves and marks on those loans. But that was a release of $371 million to get you to the $379 million
net number. Overall though, leaves us with 8.44% at the end of the quarter of reserve to loans there.
Moving on to Retail Financial Services on the next slide, some of the drivers here, top half of the page is the
deposit taking side, the Retail Bank. Here, as we said, I will point you to the circled number, average deposits
$339.6 billion, up obviously versus a year ago, given Washington Mutual transaction this time a year ago, and
declined as expected by about $8 billion from last quarter, as we let high-rate, high-cost Washington Mutual CDs,
one year CDs, are rolling off mostly in the third and fourth quarter coming up.
Everything else in the branch production side, we still have underlying good growth in the Retail Banking
franchise, inclusive of WaMu and away from WaMu as well, and the WaMu integration continues to go quite well,
with the last conversion happening in a couple of weeks here. So everything healthy and on track in the Retail
Bank. Consumer Lending side down at the bottom of the page. Total firm-wide originations and renewals of credit
total about $140 billion in the quarter, and $46 billion of that is what you see down in the bottom of this page in the
retail side. That's $37 billion or so of mortgage loan originations, about flat year-over-year and down a bit
quarter-over-quarter. Remember the real dynamic in that business is our exit of the broker channel in the past 12
months helping drive some of those numbers, replaced by activities more directly originated by ourselves. And
then next is auto originations. You see about $7 billion of auto originations, we have done well in terms of market
share in that business in the prime side, and particular strength this quarter with the Cash for Clunkers program.
So moving to the next slide, slide five, for the income statement for Retail Financial Services. We will just take this
in two pieces. So as you see in the middle of the left-hand side, the Retail Bank revenues of about $4.6 billion, up
substantially from year ago given Washington Mutual in particular. We had profits of $1.043 billion in the quarter.
So very profitable business in Retail Banking, consistent and up a little bit from last quarter. Then the other side of
RFS is Consumer Lending at the bottom of the page, and driven by the very high level of credit costs that I will go
through in the next slide of $3.8 billion which includes some additions, about $1.4 billion addition to loan loss
reserves, we ended up having an after-tax loss of about $1 billion in consumer lending.
So moving to the slide on the credit portfolios in Home Lending, let me just talk through that for a second. So
here, slide six, I will start on the upper left with some of the overall commentary here. As we said last quarter, and
then a month ago at a conference, we continue to see initial signs of stability in the consumer, early bucket
delinquency trends, but we are not ready to declare that that's a sustained trend, but it is continuing to be what we
actually observe. Another overall comment is that as far as the impact of foreclosure moratorium, the trial mods
which have been very active in doing, and just the overall extension of processing of REO through the courts,
those things are obviously having an effect on overall delinquency stats. But just want to make it clear that we are
doing everything we can to stay on top of the income statements, recognizing losses through charge-offs and
adding to reserves without regard for the impact that those factors would be causing in the overall delinquency
stats.
So with that, moving over to the left hand side you see the actual charge-offs for the quarter in the circle there,
that totals up to about $2.1 billion this quarter across these three portfolios, down a touch from last quarter. So
charge-offs themselves actually stable quarter over quarter, but obviously at a very high level, which is driving the
business to the after-tax losses we saw. On the right hand side then, in outlook, I won't go through these piece by
piece, but it is unchanged. Looking ahead to what we see, we are not changing any of these numbers, and
obviously whether we advance to these levels is going to be a function of whether some of the early bucket
delinquency trends that we described continue or not.
Then the final important point, on the purchase credit impaired loans we acquired from Washington Mutual will be
about $150 billion or so that we wrote down by $30 billion through SOP 03-3 at the time we did the transaction.
Overall, that portfolio is behaving in aggregate as we expected. But we measure impairment at sub portfolio levels
for purposes of accounting impairments, and so as we look at the prime portfolio, not option arms, just the prime
mortgage portfolio, we see some weakness. We obviously measure that in terms of expected lifetime losses on
that portfolio, and have added $1.1 billion that is put on the books in the form of a loan loss reserve as opposed to
an incremental mark. So that is $1.4 billion -- $1.1 billion of the $1.4 billion loan loss addition in RFS or in
Consumer Lending in the quarter.
So with that, moving on to Card Services on slide seven, you see as expected, and unfortunately, a loss of $700
million in the quarter. That is fully driven by the continued elevated credit costs, high credit costs in the quarter,
basically coming in consistent with what we talked about last quarter. So the charge off rates on the Chase
portfolio, the legacy Chase portfolio as opposed to the run-off WaMu sub-prime portfolio, Chase portfolio 9.41%
charge off rate circled there at the bottom on the left, up from 8.97% last quarter, trending toward the 10% plus or
Page 2 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

minus we talked about last time for where we would head by the end of the year, I'll get to outlook commentary in
a minute. And we bolstered reserves here by about $600 million.
On the revenue side, the dynamics here we continue to see, end-of-period outstandings circled at $144 billion,
trending lower from the year ago and last quarter. And that is the factors we have talked about before, backing
away from balance transfer business on our part in the marketing side, together with lower actual consumer
spend on their cards, lower charge volume, as well as the charge offs, all driving outstandings down which puts
pressure on revenues. And then the other piece is sales volume itself. You see circled $78.9 billion, excluding
balance transfers that number is down 6%. It is down year-over-year, but we think we are actually holding our
own and doing well in terms of share spend. But the overall market we believe is the factor driving the 6%
year-over-year decline, and that obviously factors into the revenue side. So that, together with the credit costs,
gets you to the loss in the business, obviously high level of stress on the losses in the Washington Mutual
portfolio. So losses in this business we expect to continue as we said through next year, no different from what
we said before there.
On the Commercial Banking business, page eight, you see profits of $341 million, up 9% year-over-year.
Continued good dynamics in this business. Obviously, credit trends are up, but revenues are up year-over-year,
largely due to the impact of Washington Mutual. But at $1.5 billion, that along with very good expense
management, gives us the earnings power to absorb a normalized credit environment. So you can see on the
credit cost line, total $355 million of credit costs, that is on higher charge offs you see circled down on the left, 111
basis points of charge off rates for the business, up year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter, but consistent with
what we have talked about in this kind of economy, these portfolios credit is going to normalize. We end the
quarter with more than 3, at 3% reserve to loans, which we think is very well reserved for the business.
Next on Treasury and Security Services, slide nine, profits of $302 million, which is down both year-over-year and
quarter-over-quarter. Liability balances are down, and assets under custody, up a little bit versus the prior year.
But the revenue side down 8%, with the big driver being declining revenues in the Security Services side, the
custody and investor services business, that's abating levels of activity in securities lending business, together
with overall lower liability balances in that business. So a disappointing revenue decline in WSS. TS down a little
on the revenue side, and that drives the overall profit number of about $300 million in the business.
Asset Management on slide 10, net income here of $430 million, up year-over-year, 23% on revenues of $2.1
billion, which are up 6% year-over-year. And you can see the spread across the various businesses, Private
Bank, Institutional, and so forth. Really, continue to do well in the business here. Assets under management, $1.3
trillion, that is all the market level impacts on the business together with nice positive inflows of $113 billion for the
past year and continued inflows of $34 billion in the past quarter. And investment performance continues to be
strong and that, of course, is the necessary ingredient in this business. So overall, things continue to be doing
well in the Asset Management business.
And then lastly, on the income statement, is the Corporate Segment. I will spend a minute on this, page 11. So
breaking it up into the pieces, you see in the box in the upper left, the net income box, so net income of $88
million in Private Equity, that's on revenues of $155 million, the first time we've had some positive valuations in
Private Equity in a little while. The next line is important. That's Corporate, that's everything else inclusive of the
treasury business and the corporate investment portfolio. Here, obviously a very strong $1.3 billion of net income.
A couple of pieces there that are noteworthy, one is non-interest revenues of $900 million after tax, and that is
primarily related to trading gains in the investment portfolio. I think of that as positions we own that aren't
available-for-sale accounting. On those we had a separate increase in the OCI accounts of about $3.7 billion after
tax in the quarter, but this is what runs through the P&L because it is mark to market. That $900 million is
obviously a very strong number in the quarter. And secondarily, it's the benefit of the net interest income on the
larger AFS portfolio, which is appropriate given where we are in the balance sheet demand from clients as well as
the low interest rate environment.
So what I will say here is that obviously the $1.3 billion number is high here for the profits of Corporate. We see
that coming down to something more like $500 million plus or minus the after-tax positive in the next quarter or
two, and beyond that it will drift lower to a more modest positive as we get to the middle and then through the end
of next year. Of course, I'd caveat that, that is subject to the volatility of one-time items, but that's the dynamics of
corporate.
Capital on page 12, you see again what I said up front, we have $101 billion of Tier 1 common capital, $127
billion of Tier 1 capital, up strongly versus last quarter. And for the point I made about the improvements in OCI,
tangible capital is up even more to the tune of $3.7 billion after-tax improvement in the AFS portfolio, which we
Page 3 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

still have. Capital ratios at 10.2% and 8.2%, we think are very, very strong. And on top of that, obviously the great
strength of the earnings power of the Company and the $31.5 billion of reserves.
So let me now just wrap up the quarter, and talk about outlook on side 13. So just to make a few points, much of
this is familiar to you, but obviously in the Investment Bank, we are seeing great, great results in the markets
businesses. And we don't know when, but we would make the point that revenues in the market side: fixed
income and equities, we would expect to normalize over time as conditions in the markets and customer activity
levels stabilize. We don't know when, but that's just a point we would make about the strength of the results in the
investment bank. Looking backwards, a very strong first three quarters of the year, obviously.
On the Retail Financial Services side, nothing different here. We have covered this and it is unchanged.
Obviously the Consumer Lending business will remain under pressure, and a loss maker, so long as credit costs
remain at these kind of levels.
On the Credit Cards services side, let me just say that the outlook for -- as we now look into what we can see into
the early part, maybe the middle of 2010, we take the Chase portfolio, net charge-offs of plus or minus 10.5% or
so, highly dependent after that on where the unemployment and the economy goes, but that's as far as we can
see.
And just in terms of some noise in the numbers, there will be a swing between the fourth quarter and the first
quarter, as a payment holiday we did earlier in the year runs through the loss buckets. So that will actually
depress fourth quarter loss rates abnormally, but to 9% plus or minus, and we will get the other side of that in the
first quarter of next year where it will be 11% plus or minus. But the underlying dynamic is the advancing towards
10.5% as a true core number. WAMU losses, as I said, in the run-off portfolio, nothing different here, trending
higher, and continued pressure on the level of outstandings and charge volumes, translates into the picture that
the Card business, as we said, loses money for the foreseeable future on a quarterly basis.
Commercial Bank, nothing different about our commentary here, we expect credit to continue to weaken but we
feel very strongly reserved and the business is positioned quite well and healthy. Unchanged commentary on
Treasury and Security Services and Asset Management. Private Equity, we don't know, it will be a volatile line.
We have $6 billion of capital deployed that we hope to make a return on, but we can't predict quarterly results.
And Corporate is as I just described, $500 million plus or minus, subject to one-time items in the next quarter at
least, maybe two.
And the final comment on outlook is, obviously, if the economy weakens from here we could need to do additional
reserving, or likely to do additional reserving if the economy actually weakens from where we are currently
running.
So finishing the quarter now, just hitting quickly before we go to Q&A, on a few key topics. On the capital planning
side, just worth making the comment that obviously the 8.2% and 10.2% capital ratios are very strong. We think
there's a lot of dialog out there about potential for changes in regulatory expectations in terms of capital and
liquidity. Our point would be we feel well prepared to handle whatever comes along on that score, but details
obviously are for all of us are to follow on that score.
And then the dividend comment, no different from what I said a month ago at a conference which is that it is a
board decision, and when we are confident that the economy doesn't have another potential leg down, which
looks like to us, in all likelihood a peaking and then a decline in our actual credit costs, charge offs coming down,
as well as external factors like peaking unemployment as an external factor, at that stage we would likely make a
single significant move initially upping the dividend to something in the range of $0.75 to $1 per year from the
$0.20 level we are currently at. And then from that point forward, we feel comfortable with our 30% to 40% pay
out rate of normalized earnings. And if we're lucky, that first significant move could come some time in the early
part of 2010, but that requires the economy to stabilize as we talked about earlier.
Update on some of these consumer initiatives, obviously you saw us in some of the Treasury Department
statements making significant strides in modifying mortgages. We think that's the right thing to do and are actively
engaged, 262,000 mortgages modified, early days to tell how successful those actions will be. The only point I
would make is that it is not a delayed negative void P&L impact for us. We are staying on top of it as I said earlier,
the credit and credit costs impact we believe of having the modification program at the level it is at. Still the right
thing to do.
On overdraft fees, again, we are doing the right thing for the customers, we think given where -- how they're
behaving and how usage of debit cards has evolved. It's the right thing to do. It will cost us some money. We
don't really know and we don't have final rules from the Government on what they expect the industry to do, but if
Page 4 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

nothing else were to change, i.e.,consumer behavior, which it likely will, we can see that be something that could
cost us about, up to $500 million plus or minus after tax in the Retail business. But again, that's a pretty simple
number, we don't have all of the other impacts that likely come along to say that with a great degree of conviction.
Finally, despite the challenging environment, you've seen us be very active on the credit card products side. We
think we have a great business, when you look out several years despite the near-term pressures, and our eye is
on that prize. So we are focused on delivering better and new products. You saw it in terms of the new Affluent
card we rolled out in the quarter and the marketing behind, that together with some new small business products,
and as well the Blueprint service to help our clients manage their borrowings better that was highlighted in the ad
in the papers today. So we feel very good about just an example of how we are staying focused on investing in all
of our businesses despite, again, the challenging times and the earnings power that's placed and the capital
strength allows us to do that. With that, that's all I wanted to say up front. I am sure there's questions that you
want to ask us beyond that. So with that I'll turn it over to
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: First thing I want to do is make sure that I correctly
balance what I think was a cautious tone on credit and reserve building in the Press Release, the comment by
Jamie that we really haven't seen the stabilization, whatever stabilization we have seen, last long enough to be
confident that it is lasting. On the other hand, the comment that I think you might have made to the press this
morning, and forgive me if I didn't get it right, you still think the end of the reserve building period is near, and I
want to understand the thinking that goes into all of those comments.
MIKE CAVANAGH: The point is that subject to the economy stabilizing and these trends continuing, which we just
don't know, that is the point. If that were true, we are getting near the end of reserve building. But we don't know
and we have to remain cautious about what does happen from here. If things worsen, we may need to do more
reserve actions and that's the message, not really different from last quarter actually.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. Fair enough. And in terms of the gains that you saw, as you pointed out both through
the P&L and the Corporate side, and the AOCI swing, which was pretty significant, can you give us a sense for
how much of that might have been actual realized gains?
MIKE CAVANAGH: The preponderance of it is unrealized, Guy.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Obviously all of the AOCI, there was a few hundred million dollars of gains that were realized
related to the AFS portfolio and the rest were unrealized values.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Then another question, just on the WSS unit within Treasury & Security Services that you
referred to, I am just wondering if you can give us a little bit more color on what's driving the contraction in those
spreads there.
MIKE CAVANAGH: It is largely customer activity levels and change in appetite on products, but that's one
business where we'll have to look and see how the rest of the industry performs, when we see some other results
to get a firm conclusion there.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. Thanks. One final question on Card, you note that the managed margin actually
bumped up by I guess close the a percentage point to about 910 basis points. Are you still looking for the
regulatory changes that kicked in to cost you ultimately about $0.5 billion. I think that was the number you had
outlined.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Our last number was $500 million to $750 million after tax, plus or minus obviously. And
again all other things staying the same which we don't know, and it is hard to see given everything else going on
in credit.
JAMIE DIMON, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: This is Jamie. Let me give you a little on Card. The Card
business is going through a substantial adjustment. We know that we have visibility to early losses next year. So
we know we will lose a lot of money next year in Card, and it could be north of a billion dollars in both the first and
second quarter. That number will probably only start coming down as you see unemployment and charge offs
come down. And the UDAP stuff is a static analysis, we think it will cost that kind of number, but it does relate to
how everybody else in the marketplace reacts. You have to do a better job underwriting up front. And you have to
do, if you want to maintain your clients, a better job, I'm going to call it marketing, but think of it as rewards,
services, and things like that to grow the business.
Page 5 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

So what we are doing in the Card business is really looking past 2010. And we have asked the people in the Card
business to build new products, great new products clear and simple marketing, to do it where we have a
competitive advantage; we have competitive advantage on the cost side, we think we have competitive
advantage on the brand side, there's competitive advantage because of retail distribution. We think we're going to
come out as a slightly smaller business, because people are going to cut back credit and subprime and places
they can't manage the risk properly. But we think it will be a great business coming out of that. You won't see the
results of that until 2011 and 2012.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Great. Thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Glenn Schorr with UBS.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. First one is to Mike. Curious about interest rate positioning. The
thing that brought the question is if you look at your consolidated average balance sheet, the yield on your
long-term debt came down 51 basis points this quarter. It is only 209 basis points, and I am just curious if we are
looking at a net yield or do you have a significant amount of floating rate debt? It is $270 billion strong, but it is an
amazingly low number helping to support , obviously, the net interest margin. So I am curious on how you're
positioned in this incredibly low rate
JAMIE DIMON: I guess what we can follow up afterwards on the debt, the debt question. Generally looking ahead
and holding aside the Investment Bank, which obviously has its own dynamics that aren't net interest margin
related, and what we do in the investment portfolio, which is a deliberate decision about how we position the
Company, which we have been open about, the rest of the businesses will run at relatively stable dollar margin.
Spreads pressures are being actual run off of some of the consumer portfolios and general stability in the rest of
the portfolios. On a dollars and margin and close to the same in percentage terms. For the overall company
there's a lot of other factors that go into it, but the real dynamics there typically run through the investment
portfolio and the Investment Bank.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. And you said you want to follow up on the long-term debt one.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Sure.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Maybe while we have Jamie there, too. Look, you both commented on some of the
regulatory changes that are coming, but I am just curious on the ones you might think could have the most impact
because cards had a legitimate impact on how the businesses manage. But between the formation of the CFPA
and the potential changes, are those the two that are front and center given your comments on how you feel
about your capital ratios already?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, capital is a little different because you are reading around the world. People talking about
higher capital, liquidity and market and risk and size and god knows what, and changes in accounting and all of
that. We are very well-positioned for all of that. We have plenty of capital. Remember, we have the amount of Tier
1 Common that was required in the SCAP test and all of that. So, but you are right, the two main regulatory
issues are kind of front and center derivatives, and we really don't know how it is going to turn out. We hope it
turns out in a rational way. We have been proponents of getting those derivatives into a clearing house, but we
don't think they should be forced into an exchange.
There should be room for over-the-counter -- you always read about they don't have capital, they're not regulated
and all of that is just untrue. Over-the-counter derivatives, if you were doing it through a broker dealer, which is
regulated by the OCC and Fed, have capital requirements and credit reporting requirements, reporting
requirements and we think it is important that that businesses be allowed to exist to service customers properly.
We don't know how it is going to turn out yet. It's kind of flip-flopping all over the place. And with all [ of them]
forced on an exchange, that could have a material impact on the business, and on a lot of companies in America.
That would change the way people had to do business in that area. The Consumer Financial Protection Agency
again, -- everyone acts like that is a given, that will happen some way. I wish it weren't. I thought we had a
change to streamline, strengthen and simplify our spaghetti regulatory system, and instead we are making it more
complicated and more litigious, which over time will be more damaging to our country than not damaging.
We are in favor of consumer protection, we just don't think that's the right way to do it. If you have to have a
consumer protection agency, the most important aspect, the long-term health of the business, will be if you have
proper federal preemption of states. You could draw a scenario where every state has its own rules and own
requirements and own disclosures. How are you going to run call center -- the disclosure form for documents
could be even longer and more confusing, litigation will be higher. And remember, all of that will be paid for by the
Page 6 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

customer. One of the great lies of this whole thing is that it won't. Anything like that would be paid for by the
customer, and so we don't know how it is going to turn out yet.
GLENN SCHORR: I have more faith on the derivative side, too. Mike, maybe last question, just a quick one. I
know it is an involved question, but can you comment - impact of the falling dollar both on the balance sheet and
income statement side in the quarter. Does it do much or you run much of a hedge?
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, not a material thing. So we can carry that if you want off line.
GLENN SCHORR: No worries. Thank you much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hey Mike, it looks like you continue to buy securities
this quarter. Just wondering if you can you give us a high level, your kind of philosophy approach to building the
securities book when loan growth for the industry is obviously not there, and how do you think about the rate risk
associated with the growing investment book?
JAMIE DIMON: Go on your balance sheet, and the investment portfolio is just another way of utilizing your capital
and managing interest rate exposures and other exposure. But it is true that over time we built up that portfolio.
We do it to make money. I mean, that's what we're here for. We are a profit enterprise. And we do it to balance off
other exposures. When we create deposits, we have to buy longer term assets and things like that. Our interest
rate exposure in a very simplistic way -- we do disclose this in the 10-K, I don't know what the number is today.
But it is going to show that for 100 basis point one-time move in the curves it will cost us a billion dollars.
We don't look at it in that simplistic way. We look at a whole bunch of different scenarios to make sure the
Company is -- so in other words, it doesn't show we have a mismatch of $100 billion, and that's simplistic. We
move that quickly so you shouldn't assume it will stay in a position like that. But we make other decisions, whether
we want to buy mortgages, what's the mortgage basis, what are the other scenarios we're protecting against, so
we don't take a tremendous amount of risk. We did see an opportunity in the last six months to put on some
assets at good spreads, and the people in the investment office were allowed to go into credit products, and some
trading products because you were being paid an awful lot of money to do it. Remember, that's what we are here
for not just to be simplistic. And Mike said that number over time will come down because the portfolio will come
down and the capital will probably be used elsewhere.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And kind of related.
JAMIE DIMON: Remember, you don't lose it all because your capital doesn't go away. You still get to do
something else.
JOHN MCDONALD: And on the same kind of philosophy, hedging the MSR as the basis on rates is up over the
next few years, that same investment office has an integrated view about how you are hedging the MSR?
JAMIE DIMON: The MSR, as you know, is generally short duration, short volatility and short mortgage basis,
which is mortgage spreads against slots or treasuries, and the general premise is that you're hedged against
those things. Even when you're hedged you are going to have a lot of volatility because, remember you are
hedging against the model. You will always have some volatility. There are occasions when we use the MSR to
take the position you want to take on mortgage basis volatility or duration. And the question is, what's the
cheapest way to do it. The folks in the investment office have the authority to do that if they think that is the best
way to do it. But for the most part you are going to be hedged those three things.
MIKE CAVANAGH: It is integrated with the rest of the view of the portfolio.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. In Card, any idea what the impact of payment holidays and other deferrals and
modifications in Card are having on delinquencies, is the payment holiday something you would do again
potentially?
JAMIE DIMON: No, we are not going to do it again. I don't think we're allowed to do it any more. It will reduce the
charge-off rate by 50 or 75 basis points in the fourth quarter, and increase it by 50 or 75 in the first quarter, and
obviously, we think it is net present value positive, but we probably won't do something like that again. A bunch of
other numbers get affected. But we try to adjust for all of that.
JOHN MCDONALD: Beyond that, there are other modification discussions and deferrals and re-aging that's going
on in Card?
Page 7 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: It's standard. It is obviously more because you have more things and work out more problems.
And the recovery rates are 5%, not 15%. So there are other things happening in Card. Card is having a tough
time, but like I said we will take this opportunity to build a great business.
JOHN MCDONALD: Last question, the WAMU CD run-off, Mike, should that help the net interest margin at some
point going forward?
MIKE CAVANAGH: You did see it in that deposit margin which is on the Retail Banking on slide 4, a few basis
point improvement as high cost debt rolls off.
JAMIE DIMON: Very high rates on those.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So that is helping in your deposit margin.
JAMIE DIMON: Exactly.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And last question on the cost savings from WAMU, where are you on the realization of
that.
JAMIE DIMON: WAMU cost savings?
MIKE CAVANAGH: We're on track. It will all be done -- like I said, the final conversion and those savings will be in
the run rate as we exit this year.
JOHN MCDONALD: Thanks, guys.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Thanks. A couple of questions, one on the NSF
changes you made, and how you think through managing the business for that. I thought when you bought
WAMU, one of the opportunities was to raise the cross sell, and as you were doing that, NSF and things like that
would come down. I am not sure if you are making these changes ahead of cross sell improving, or if there's
another opportunity for you to morph the business line to get to the ROEs you were hoping with the change you
are making.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't get your question totally, Betsy.
BETSY GRASECK: Basic question is NSFs are coming down, right?
JAMIE DIMON: Right.
BETSY GRASECK: When you bought WAMU you indicated you expected you were going to be doing that, given
that California is a pretty high NSF market, and you were going to be making up for that ahead of time with cross
sell increasing. Have you gotten to the cross sell piece, part, or target that helps you reduce NSF?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, the reason -- remember one thing when you do a merger you have to also merge the
product sets. So you have a change in the products and how they're being used. We've also had a change in
customers and how they are actually using the products, stuff like that. So you are seeing both of those taking
place in the WAMU branches, and the cross sell is doing kind of what we expect to do, we are adding the people
in the branches, the marketing, and I think we are kind of -MIKE CAVANAGH: With the conversions we will get the new products in. That's on track as it was with Bank of
New York and Chase before that on the introducing products. And think of what happens as -- on the fee side is
independent but we are doing both, we are doing both the right way.
BETSY GRASECK: So I mean the NSF changes that you are making now should have an impact on the ROE in
business, no, or are you going to have any offsets.
JAMIE DIMON: The real NSF changes we are making that we announced will be some time in the first quarter -we are going to allow, to have opt-in, and a new set of products and no more than three each day and a whole
bunch of different things. The detail is being designed now. And think of it as a first quarter item.
BETSY GRASECK: And so are there any offsets to that in the business model?
Page 8 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I personally don't think there will be a lot. But Mike gave you a static number, $500 million plus or
minus, but it is not static. How do customers really use things? And, if everyone does it, can you change your
pricing a little bit? So my guess is you'll get back some of it but not all of it.
BETSY GRASECK: Did you test it before you came out with the numbers?
JAMIE DIMON: No, we are going to be testing some of that, but the answer is no.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then, warrants, just how do we think about that process, and how that is going to
be involved.
MIKE CAVANAGH: It is in the hands of the government. So, obviously, we are awaiting what they choose to do. I
think they're just trying to get their process nailed down to be a universal one, and hopefully they get that rolled
out publicly soon, but the ball is in their court.
JAMIE DIMON: It doesn't affect our company at all.
BETSY GRASECK: I guess two other quick things, one on trust business. How do you think about the normalized
earnings for the trust business? I know back in a couple of years back you had target ROEs and pretax margins
for the different businesses, and it seems like TSS is running way below what your goals had been.
JAMIE DIMON: I think, I think our goal is exactly the same as it was before, I think it was a 35% margin.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, 30% to 35% pretax margin. We have put more capital in the business. So on an ROE
basis, it is a different ROE, but pretax margin this quarter was 26%, 31% last. There's nothing wrong with that
pretax margin target for the business over time.
BETSY GRASECK: You get there with what -- spreads normalizing?
MIKE CAVANAGH: That, and growth.
JAMIE DIMON: And growth.
BETSY GRASECK: Just lastly on normalized earnings for the overall company, how do you think through what
your franchise should be generating over time?
JAMIE DIMON: We are not giving you a forecast. We wouldn't expect to earn these levels on a normalized basis
necessarily, and that Corporate line is going to come down from $1.3 billion to $800 million to $500 million over
time depending on the decisions we make. And in Cards, we don't know yet. So, we've seen a lot of the
normalized earnings and it's kind of all over the place. But if you want to think ahead on the Company a little bit,
with over $32 billion of reserves, whether that number goes up a little bit or whatever, when things normalize
whether that's 2011 or 2012, it's got to come down to $15 or $12 or $10 billion. So you know you have that -- but
you also know these other businesses will go, some will go from losing to making money. The underlying
earnings part of the company is very powerful. That's what we try to build all the time, more branches, more
bankers, more clients to drive that number in 2012.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Cool. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. You mentioned the $500 million, was it after tax or pretax, and is
that the total amount of your overdraft fees?
JAMIE DIMON: It is after tax -- it's just an estimate of what the changes might do, and it's a very static number.
Maybe we will try to get more information later, but it is a very rough estimate because we know you will be
asking.
MIKE MAYO: That's simply related to the overdraft fees?
MIKE CAVANAGH: The changes in the policies in general, yes.
MIKE MAYO: Okay. And loans were down about 5% linked quarter, 16% year-over-year. Is that supply or
demand? What are some of the ins and outs there?
Page 9 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE CAVANAGH: So consumer portfolios, you have run off portfolios from Washington Mutual and Credit Card,
and large ones in Retail, and obviously some tightening of underwriting standards in those businesses generally.
So expect that at the origination levels, that for a period of time here we are going to have downward pressure on
those balances. We're in the business of making loans against our underwriting standards today.
So it is active supply, meeting demand on that score. On the commercial side, Commercial Bank you have seen a
little further decline, loan balances down a few billion dollars to $102 or something like that this quarter. And that
is more, it is a little bit of everything, but it is more demand clearly because we see extended credit lines utilized
at the lowest levels of all time. You could see a swing in those numbers as soon as confidence returns in our
commercial clients and they have some use for that money.
MIKE MAYO: Have you seen any tick up?
JAMIE DIMON: The Investment Bank, it is mostly corporations going to the market and paying down their loans.
So the loans in the Investment Bank dropped from $90 billion to $60 billion over a year. So that was more than we
expected, but to be expected.
MIKE MAYO: Can you give any more color on your trading which is a lot greater than people expected. Your
trading revenues are kind of flattish link quarter, but your trading assets are down and VAR is down. So is all of
your trading benefit through client flows or wider bid spreads, or what's going on there?
JAMIE DIMON: Remember, the VAR is a good one point measure, but part of VAR is going down because you
drop off some of the more volatile time periods that we're in the time series. But the trading was drawn across
most areas, there's a lot of client flow and spreads are still higher than they were at the bottom. So, they're not
nearly as high as they were after the crisis, but they're coming down a little bit. A lot of good client business and
some good train around that.
MIKE MAYO: Last question, this is the first phone call since you had the change in the management of the
Investment Bank, and clearly your Investment Bank is doing well. So the question is, is this a good time to change
the management when everything seems to be going right?
JAMIE DIMON: I guess you don't necessarily make management changes for the next 5 to 10 years because you
think you are having a good quarter or a bad quarter or something like that. In fact, very often you get caught
doing it at the wrong time. You can't do it in a bad quarter, it won't look right. You just try to figure out what the
right thing to do for long-term health of the Company. So I don't think it relates at all to whether you are having a
good year or a bad one.
MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question from the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisory Group.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY GROUP: Good morning. I have two
questions. My first is on the supplement page 16. It talks about some of the changes that you made in terms of
inputs for your valuation on your mortgage business, And I wanted to know if you could give more color to what
the inputs were, how things have changed. The last major change it looks like you made within the fourth quarter
of 2008. How you market, it looks as if California might have turned down again.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes. So I guess the way to look at it, the model is always being adjusted. And you are always
updating it for home prices, housing turnover, prepayment models. And you do that at a very detailed level, and
you do it differently for 4.5% mortgage, than 5.5% or high or low LTV and stuff like that. That is just updating
constantly, and some times those model changes will have a benefit and some times have a negative.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: I know. I appreciate how that is constructed. I just wanted to get more color from you: is
there anything in the US housing market you see differently on a regional basis, improving, not improving, or is it
rates-driven?
JAMIE DIMON: No, I think it was mostly lower housing turnover and lower prepayment rates.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: The number -- we also make judgments to continue regardless of the model.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. Would you go one step further and comment on the California housing market?
Page 10 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: On the housing market?
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: You know the data as well as we do. You have seen again the numbers, and of course you dig
into them, you can always question them. But in half the markets in America of the major MSAs, you've seen
stabilization, in fact an increase in the last couple of months, call it a stabilization of home prices. That was more
true for lower priced homes than higher priced homes. But it also happens in places where price is down
dramatically and where prices weren't down dramatically. And obviously Florida is still bad, parts of California we
are seeing some improvement. We see that improvement in the MSAs where foreclosures are a high percent of
sales, and we've seen it in MSAs where foreclosures aren't as high of a percent of sales. So I would agree with
you there's a lot of distortion in that number, but all things being equal, it is a good fact, not a bad fact.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. All right. Then just one point of clarification, Mike, when you talked about the
commercial portfolio, and the 111 basis points of charge off, I was unclear as to where you thought that I was
going to go. Is it stable at that level?
MIKE CAVANAGH: Trending a little higher. Remember it is the same message. Our reserves are probably good,
but you probably have continued pressure on charge offs.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: One great thing about that business, I'm going back to the old Bank One days when 60% or 70%
of the revenues were loan-related, and now it is more like 40% or maybe even less percent are loan related. Now
here we have a commercial bank with a very good return in a very tough time.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: And they have done a hell of a job controlling their credit losses. And of course, we know that in
tough environments they are going to get worse, but they have been far better than you might have expected,
even up until now in this type of environment.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Well-positioned too.
JAMIE DIMON: As you know, we are very careful in commercial real estate. That $12 billion -- the losses are
2.3%, we expect those to go up. We just don't think they're going to be a dramatic impact on the Company.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Would you comment more broadly than the last question on timing of commercial real
estate when you think it affects the industry? If you have any derivative exposure, meaning derivative to someone
else's real estate exposure, and just comment more broadly on that.
JAMIE DIMON: We have lending exposure, I just mentioned in the Commercial Bank. Obviously, some in the
Investment Bank, but we wouldn't put those in a material kind of category, what makes us that nervous. And
commercial real estate, the values have already dropped and it is going to be recognized over the next couple of
years in people's P&L write downs, as people put up reserves and can't refinance properties and stuff like that.
So, we believe you will see several hundred additional smaller regional based banks not make it. But there's also
going to be a lot of capital eventually coming through into the real estate business as people try to recapitalize,
and buy properties at good cap rates.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: It could be an opportunity for us, not a negative over time.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Got it. Thanks so much.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. I was hoping just to flush out some
comments with respect to delinquency trends in home lending. You kind of talked to stabilization on slide 17 in the
slide deck. It looks like all of those lines are going up and it can be the discrepancy between percentage
delinquencies versus dollars delinquencies coming down. Maybe you can talk to that. And also if you can expand
in terms of what impact or quantify what impact foreclosure moratoriums and modifications are having on overall
mortgage delinquencies.
Page 11 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE CAVANAGH: Right. Clearly on the overall 30 plus delinquencies, that's where you get the distortion as
things stay in buckets longer. I won't try to take that number down too much. You see those really in both of those
buckets, so in percentage terms on slide 17, you do see those effects rolling through. On a dollar basis, it is
stabilization that we are seeing across those portfolios, and again it is portfolios coming down.
JAMIE DIMON: The stuff is coming in the front end, is going bad for the first time, that is where you see
stabilization. And then the actual roll rates, that is what deteriorates over time. We try to adjust on the delinquency
side -- we keep all mortgage modifications and delinquencies throughout the trial process. That's actually driven
up our delinquencies, not down. And Mike may remember what that number was, something like 20%.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, 20% to 30% higher depending on the portfolio.
JASON GOLDBERG: Thank you. And then with respect to, you mentioned reserve leases in the Investment
Bank, is attributable to mark ups in leveraged loans, and it flows through that line, or just more clarification on
that.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's in the total provisioning line. We took $750 million worth of charge downs. So carrying
value of loans written down by $750 million. But on a loan-by-loan basis, many of those loans entered the quarter
already having reserves up against them. So on a net of reserves basis, they were already on average carried at
$0.60 on the dollar. So it's just a geography swing. We like -- on a particular, hypothetically, we like $0.60 on the
dollar and we have a charge off event. So we charge the carrying value down by $0.40 and release the $0.40 of
reserves we had. That's all running through the credit costs line. It's a release of allowance for loan losses.
JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. And then just lastly, I mean, and obviously the bid-ask spreads in the Fixed Income
markets have been extremely wide, and I am sure this quarter benefited from that, But I guess it feels like it may
be narrowing at the point. Just maybe talk in terms of how that has trended over the last months and at what pace
and how that plays out?
JAMIE DIMON: It is different for every single product. It is hard to say, but a benchmark with 1x before the crisis,
it got as high as 6x. And has come back to 2x. But it is really different for every product. 1x may have been
unnaturally low and never come back to 1x, but the competitors are back which is a good thing for the industry.
There is much more competition today and people competing both in the flow and reducing spreads.
JASON GOLDBERG: Great. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of David Trone with Fox-Pitt Kelton.
DAVID TRONE, ANALYST, FOX-PITT KELTON: Good morning. Guys, I don't know if you have noticed but you
were starting to get the pay criticism thing really heating up again in the press. And I don't suspect that it is
necessarily going to go away as these bonus numbers kind of pile up through the quarters. How does this affect
your thoughts on if there's more controversy and political pressure, how will that affect your discretionary
decisions on pay as you head into the final quarter of the year?
JAMIE DIMON: Let me just talk to big picture, if you look at the FSA has spoken about, or the Financial Stability
Board. We don't yet have the fed, the fed or the treasury put out their own guidelines, but most of those guidelines
are global. If you at the pay policies of JPMorgan Chase, we have followed them. We don't have parachutes or
change of control or special severance packages. We already pay people substantial amounts of their
compensation in deferred comp and stock -- stock options we had called back for, I'm going to call, bad behavior
and things like that. We already asked the senior people of the Company, the operating committee and the
executive committee to keep a lot of their stock they ever get issued to them as long as they have their job, so
they become substantial shareholders over time.
We always looked at long-term sustained performance realizing that the rising tide will sell boats and the sinking
tide can sinkhole boats. We have looked at the contribution people make to building a great franchise at
JPMorgan, and that includes recruiting, how they treat clients, systems, not just financial results. We maintain
those standards and we think have done it right and fair and continue to do what we're doing. Industries have to
pay for performance over time, and we are committed to treating each individual, each individual properly.
DAVID TRONE: Great. I know you're probably tired of this question, but you have mentioned you have a
preference for share repurchases over dividends. And you seem to go out of your way to mention the dividend
outlook, and I didn't hear anything about buy backs.

Page 12 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Let me mention one thing about comp because it hasn't been. We also call back the operating
committee for any reason. We can call back for almost any reason from the operating committee members. So,
on dividend we want to give clarity. Obviously, shareholders rely on it, going into a bleak environment with the
potential it could get even worse. The first goal became to protect the Company, but once we are convinced that
is gone, we want to reestablish the dividend. We're always said about stock buy backs that that's on opportunistic
thing. We buy back when we think it is cheap or the best thing to do with our capital. And we're not going to buy
back when we think the stock is expensive or have better uses for capital. It will be unrelated to dividend, because
dividend is a long-term decision to make for shareholders.
DAVID TRONE: Great. Thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I know that as we look at the overall numbers, they can be
confusing as to the -- any pointing to the economic outlook. But as you get the data kind of first-hand from people
that are running the businesses that are dealing with small business, smaller businesses, mid-size businesses
and consumers, what does it tell you about the economic outlook?
JAMIE DIMON: Look we are not -- what we see, you actually all see pretty much what we see, and there seems
to be the stability in the environment in terms of consumer spending, confidence, in terms of delinquencies, a little
bit of improvement in home price. Those are actual data, and that can be forming the base of a recovery or not,
but we are not going to spend a lot of time guessing about that. The only thing I'd say anecdotally which we do
get very consistently now is that business, small business, middle market, large corporate, the kind of poised and
waiting to see the recovery is taking hold. So they have plans, financial plans and growth plans, so to me it would
be a good sign if that's true because maybe people get a little more comfortable, they'll start making a little more
risk and making more investments in the future.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: You made a lot of announcements in new products in the Card business recently, can you
talk about how aggressive you are willing to be from a competitive standpoint, given the weakness, relative
weakness of some of your competitors and are there other businesses you see where you can do the same sort
of thing?
JAMIE DIMON: The first thing is to get our own model right, own products and services and make sure we adjust
to the new laws and things like that. If we think we have that right, we could be very aggressive in the marketing
side. We are willing to make investments in our business once we are convinced that we are building the right
kind of business. Our marketing budget so far for 2010 in Cards is up by several hundred million dollars, it is not
down. But we will spend that money when we feel we will get a good return on it.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Are there other businesses like that you see a competitive opening here?
JAMIE DIMON: Almost every business is making investments. And Investment Bank is still making investments in
Asia, and prime broker and systems, and Commercial Bank is building in the West coast, California, Atlanta,
Washington, Florida because of the WAMU acquisition. Retail is still opening branches and adding sales people
in the branches. TSS is adding products, Credit Cards is getting products, Asset Management is getting products
and adding bankers; so almost everywhere the underlying stuff driving growth: bankers, branches, systems,
products, that we are still doing and we have never stopped.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Next question.
OPERATOR: Okay. Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. My questions have been asked and answered. Thank
you very much.
JAMIE DIMON: Thanks, Ed.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning guys. A couple of questions. On the loan loss
reserve, could you just clarify if you build a reserve, and find, let's say in 2010 or 2011, that you don't need a
substantial portion of it, will it be available to repatriate into earnings? I have heard both views from various
regulators.
JAMIE DIMON: The answer is under current accounting rules, yes.
Page 13 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Secondly, the mortgage mods, can you tell us, has the process smoothed at this point?
What the pipeline looks like and how long do you think it's going be to get that pipeline fulfilled?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I think there's growing pains in these processes. So we have been very active in getting
modifications started. One thing, it is just still early to see how effective people are in making their payments,
which is obviously one important thing. But the other issue there is just people complying with all of the terms of
what is required under the Government's guidelines in terms of amounts and types of documentation before it can
be declared. So there's still, I would call it growing pains in the process. So it's a little early to say it is stabilized
and worked through. A lot of energy is going into it, adding a lot of people to it, us and across the industry.
NANCY BUSH: Mike, do you see this as something that's going to be permanent in the business, is this an
emergency measure, that two, three years from now will be over with, or is this something you guys are going to
have to live with to some degree or permanently?
JAMIE DIMON: The right way to look at it is, it is so large, the problems in housing today, we certainly hope there
is nothing like this ever again. We have always had work out departments, the default department, the REO
department, and it is just -- prime delinquencies of ten times what you would have expected, or losses, ten times
what you would have expected in almost any environment. So it will come down to a much more normal thing,
eventually, and you will have delinquency and charge offs and foreclosure that are just much smaller than they
are today. It will never be this -- it will probably never be this big again in our lifetime.
NANCY BUSH: Okay. That adds -- that sort of leads into the final question, on the $1.1 billion addition to the
allowance for prime mortgage in the purchase portfolio, in looking at that subgroup, was that mainly an issue -- an
unemployment issue, underwriting issue, can you add any color to that?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It is no different than the same factors that drove through from originally subprime into our
own prime portfolio, causing dynamics that look the same in terms of weakness in prime. It is home price declines
and stress of unemployment, even reaching up into a prime segment to put stress on losses.
NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: My questions have been asked and answered. Thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you, Chris.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill -- I'm sorry, Ron Mandle.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Anyway, in regard to the $1.1 billion reserve build for the impaired loans, is there
any carry over to your own portfolio? Where you haven't changed your guidance? I am just wondering what the
difference is.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, it is no difference. Our guidance is I think $600 million of quarterly losses or 5 or 6 or
whatever is on that slide for prime, which is consistent with what we said before.
RON MANDLE: Right. Right. I know it is consistent I am just wondering why the difference? Why there was a
change in one and not in the other.
MIKE CAVANAGH: No, no particular explanation on that one, they're just different portfolios. And we have been
watching them and the standards of looking at them are a little different between the two.
RON MANDLE: Okay. If you exclude the $1.1 billion which hopefully is totally non reoccurring, then your only
other major reserve build was in the Credit Card portfolio. Two things related to that. Number one, if the loan loss
in the Card portfolio is going to be down in the fourth quarter because of the holiday, you mentioned, and then up
again next year, is this reserve build now for next year? So there shouldn't be any further reserve building in the
Card portfolio? I am wondering how to think about those factors.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Again, it really relates to -- remember in general and to over-simplify this. In general, you're
forecasting forward assumptions of what your losses are and that's where your 12 months or 9 months plus the
stress, that's what your reserve is. The hope is that what you said is true. But for that to be true you would have to
see a little improvement in charge offs. If they stay where they are, yes, we don't have to reserve. If they start
getting better, yes, reserves in effect, you will have too much.
Page 14 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RON MANDLE: Right. So I guess where I was going it seems like there shouldn't be much reserve building going
forward because these two -- you've taken care of the Cards going into next year, and the $1.1 billion is
nonrecurring.
JAMIE DIMON: We hope you're right.
RON MANDLE: And then, the last question is related to the reserve. I think you said, Jamie, in answer to an
earlier question, that the probably normalized charge offs are in the $12 billion to $15 billion area, and under -- go
ahead.
JAMIE DIMON: I was just saying that the $32 billion will come down a lot.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That's reserves, too.
JAMIE DIMON: One of the criticisms of this whole thing is that a lot of the policies are all pro-cyclical in reserving.
So we went from $7 billion in reserves to $32 billion, it is going way back down again. It's going to go back down
again in a predictable thing once you start to see improvements.
MIKE CAVANAGH: We don't know where the level is going to bottom out at, but we hope it is a less pro-cyclical a
regime once we get to that point in the cycle anyway.
RON MANDLE: Right. And you mentioned that right now, the under current accounting you could bring it down.
Do you see any changes being talked about on the regulatory or accounting front that would change your ability
to bring down the reserve?
JAMIE DIMON: Not really when it comes to loan losses. If I was a regulator, I would change loan losses early and
not be so pro-cyclical.
RON MANDLE: We would all like that, but I'm just wondering -JAMIE DIMON: You all analyze and back out loan loss reserve additions and reductions, and so would I. We are
not fooling anyone with these things. So I hope there might be some more rational changes. If they do it, it might
lead to higher on average reserves.
MIKE CAVANAGH: With less volatility.
JAMIE DIMON: That would be fine with us.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
RON MANDLE: All right. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of David Konrad with KBW.
DAVID KONRAD, ANALYST, KBW: Good morning. Just a quick follow up question on mortgage banking, you
had the negative revenue in the mortgage production line item. Just want a little more color if you could on
warranty reserve, I am sure that was impacted in the number and any sort of gain on sale.
MIKE CAVANAGH: That was going back to the point of making sure we are taking the P&L impact early of some
of these problems, getting our repurchased reserves fully caught up and consistent across our portfolios was a
several hundred million dollar impact that swallowed up the production revenues in the quarter. It won't run at that
high level, the repurchase reserve. Looking ahead, it will still be something though.
DAVID KONRAD: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Most of my questions have been asked and
answered, but let me ask an administrative question. What were your troubled debt restructurings at the end of
the third quarter? You usually put those in your 10-Q, but I am wondering if you have that information as of
September 30. And if you do, what are your expectations for those balances going forward?
MIKE CAVANAGH: I believe it is going to be flattish to where it was. But you will see that in the Q. That's a little
bit of a function of you need more time for things to move into that categorization, something like six months after
Page 15 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

the restructuring is on the books and performing, then it will move. But we can follow up with you off line on that
one.
MATTHEW BURNELL: Great. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche bank.
MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. If we look out over the next year or so and we
continue to get this rebound in the economy and market. You are going to have this combination of both very
strong capital, which you talked about with respect to dividends and buy back, but also very, very strong liquidity. I
guess I just wonder how you think about using those two from an offensive point of view, because as we all think
about normalized earnings many years out, there's a lot of stuff that could happen between now and then. Does it
mean you will have very strong loan growth at some point? Does it mean your deposit rates can be much lower
than others because you have so much liquidity. How do you think about that eventually working itself through the
income statement over time?
MIKE CAVANAGH: It's not different than anything we said already. We have long had a management philosophy
of running a company across all of these businesses have very strong liquidity and very strong capital, thinking of
it as a strategic imperative. Not worried about where you could run your returns if you lightened up on that,
because we're just not going to. We think we can always run these businesses for a good return, with that kind of
approach, if we do everything else right with the kind of franchises we have. So really what that translates into just
the investments that Jamie referred to earlier, the consistence, that advantage that we have is that we don't get
distracted and continue investing in growth across all of our businesses through thick and thin. When things are a
little thin, often it's the best time. That's why we are actively doing all the things to inject growth into existing
businesses, and hopefully see that in healthy growth when you go out two, three, five years across all of these
businesses. That's where it translates into P&L.
MATT O'CONNOR: Separately on page 12 you reiterated the impact of consolidating off balance sheet assets
with reduced Tier 1 capital by about 40 basis points. One, has there been any talk about pushing that out or
changing what the implementation would be. And two, if we continue to get credit stabilizing or improving, is there
an opportunity to use reserves you currently have versus having to increase reserves which I think is driving most
of that 40 basis point drag.
MIKE CAVANAGH: You are cutting out a little bit, but I think in terms of the FAS 166, 167 stuff is expected
January 1, 2010. That's when we expected -- obviously until that data is here, the authorities there could just
decide to delay, but that's not our expectation. The point is for us it is very manageable at these ratios.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.
OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time.
MIKE CAVANAGH: Great. Well, thank you, everybody. We appreciate your dialing in. Look forward to next
quarter. Bye.
OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
Page 16 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020091028e5ae000gp

Page 17 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

