Q3 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
11,145 words
12 October 2012
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to JP Morgan Chase's third-quarter 2012
earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. Your line will be needed for the duration of the call. We will
now go live to the presentation. Please stand by.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief
Financial Officer, Doug Braunstein. Mr. Braunstein, please go ahead.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator, and good morning, everyone. I am
going to take you through the earnings presentation, which as you know is available on our website, and if you
refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation, I will kick us off on
page 1.
We generated record net income of $5.7 billion. That's on record EPS of $1.40 per share for the quarter. That
came on revenue of $25.9 billion, up 6% year on year, 13% quarter on quarter. Our return on tangible common
equity was 16% for the quarter and in the back you will see our return on Basel I risk-weighted assets was 1.7%
for the quarter.
We characterize the business across all of our lines of business as strong performance this quarter and I want to
quickly highlight up front a few contributing factors we're going to talk about as we go through the presentation.
First, we really had positive franchise trends in market share that we've been talking about for several quarters as
we continue to invest in our businesses. We maintained our number one rank in year-to-date global ID fees. We
had record deposits in CDB, record production revenue in the mortgage bank, sales volume of 11%, increase in
card, record revenue in the commercial bank, record assets under custody in TSS.
Secondly, we saw positive year-over-year loan growth although modest decline quarter on quarter and that is
despite the fact that we continue to experience the runoff from our various consumer portfolios we have talked
about. On a reported basis, total loans for the Company were up 4% year on year and if you look at core loan
growth excluding the runoff portfolios on a comparable basis to the presentation I did at the Investor Day, core
loan growth was up 10% year on year.
We had record loan balances in the CD, up 15%, record business banking loan balances in CDD, up 8%, record
asset management load balances of $75 billion.
Third theme you will see is credit. We continued to see the same core trends in the past couple of quarters -consumer loan losses still very high by historical standards, continued to improve in both our real estate portfolios
as well as card and losses continue to remain very low on the wholesale side.
Then the last theme is strong capital generation for the Company. We ended the quarter with a Tier 1 common of
$135 billion. That's up $5 billion quarter on quarter. Strong Basel I and Basel III ratios of 10.4 and 8.4%
respectively. That estimate for Basel III of the 8.4% is post-NPR and it compares to the 7.9% we reported last
quarter.

Page 1 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

I would also note we continue to work with the regulators on the implementation of the Basel II.5 rules that were
recently announced and that is going to allow us to continue to refine our estimates as we go forward.
Finally, you see as we always do put a number of significant items up front here for the quarter. I am going to
discuss these where relevant in the financials but I also do want to remind you that there are in addition to these
larger items, there are always positives and negatives that run through the P&L. So for example, we did not
highlight the $200 million negative of DVA because it wasn't significant enough for us to highlight up front, despite
the fact I just did.
If you move on to the businesses on page 3 in the investment bank, we have circled net income of $1.6 billion for
the third quarter. That's on revenues of $6.3 billion. If you take out the DVA, it was $6.5 billion in revenue for the
quarter. That's up 45% year on year, 8% sequentially, $1.7 billion of net income and return on equity of 17%.
IB fees for the quarter of $1.4 billion were up almost 40% year on year and we had particular strength this quarter
in the debt issuance activity given the favorable rate environment our clients are taking advantage of funding both
going long and increasing their funding capacity.
Markets revenues of $4.8 billion were up 24% year on year, 5% quarter on quarter, very favorable performance in
fixed income, up 33% year on year, 7% quarter on quarter, and we saw broad-based strength across the fixed
income product set and particular improving in our credit related products this quarter. Included in fixed income
for the quarter and going forward on a P&L basis was the impact of the synthetic credit portfolio that we
transferred to the IB at the very beginning of the third quarter.
I want to highlight three items here about the synthetic credit portfolio. The first is the IB did book a modest loss
this quarter in the position. That is included in the $3.7 billion of revenues and fixed income. We did continue to
reduce risk in that position this quarter and you will also see the IB VAR for the quarter was $122 million. That did
reflect the addition of the synthetic credit portfolio as well as a model change we implemented this quarter and
then a reduction of the diversification benefits for this quarter as well.
If you look at equity markets revenue of $1 billion essentially flat year on year, cash volumes continued to remain
challenged but it was offset by good results in equity derivatives as well as our prime services business. The last
comment on the IB if you look at the comp to revenue ratio ex-DVA, 32% for the quarter, 34% year-to-date.
If you turn to page 5, Consumer & Business Banking, CBB, you see circled net income of about $780 million.
That's on revenue of $4.3 billion, down 7% year on year. This will be the last quarter we talk about it on a
year-over-year basis but it was impacted by the Durbin Amendment as well as the theme we have been talking
about of narrowing deposit margins.
If you look quarter on quarter, revenues are flat and it really reflects those core business trends that have been
offsetting margin pressures, so deposit growth of 9%, we had a recent FDIC deposit survey that showed our
deposit growth at several times the industry average and the way we analyzed that data it actually showed we
grew share in our consumer deposits in all of our 50 top markets this year.
The record business banking balances of $18.6 billion; we opened over one million additional checking accounts
year-over-year; 2.5 million more active mobile customers. We continued to make progress on CPC, $155 billion of
client investments under assets on the balance sheet and we opened our 1000th CPC location actually on
October 1, so it didn't make it into the 9/30 numbers.
And just a final word on expenses consistent with the guidance we gave you last quarter, you see expenses here
return back to first-quarter levels and you are going to continue to see overhead ratios remain elevated in the
near term given the rate environment.
If you turn to mortgage production and servicing on page 6, circled net income of a little over $560 million this
quarter, record production related pretax income of $1.1 billion and that has been driven by a couple of items.
Volumes were $47 billion this quarter, up 30% year-on-year, 8% quarter on quarter, driven by the favorable rate
environment for refinancing as well as HARP volume. You will also see current margins really remain well above
historical levels. We would expect those margins to compress over time.
Our repurchase impact was essentially neutral for this quarter, similar to what we talked about last quarter. Then
you will see on the servicing side, we continue to be challenged by very high default-related expenses including
the foreclosure-related matters and the ongoing costs that are associated with the settlement in the consent
order. We do unfortunately expect these expenses to remain elevated longer and that is consistent with the
general expense guidance that we gave you last quarter certainly through the end of this year.
Page 2 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

If you turn to page 7 for real estate portfolios, see net income of $60 million, revenues are down 13%, that's the
same theme we've been talking about, decline in NII as we ran off $22 billion of loan balances in the portfolio,
11% reduction year on year and we are going to continue to see this trend impacting our annual NII by about
$500 million plus or minus and this quarter was consistent with that.
Circled credit costs of $520 million on the page really reflects three items. First, we had a modest improvement in
the credit quality trends and that resulted in a $595 million charge-off number on a comparable basis to how we
reported last quarter. And as a result of that going forward, you will see our guidance for net charge-offs is $600
million plus or minus on a quarterly basis.
Second, we recognized an incremental $825 million of charge-offs we believe one time based on new regulatory
guidance and I'm going to talk about that on the next page and as a result of all of that, we reduced our reserves
by $900 million this quarter essentially reflecting our improved expectations for losses going forward.
We have included by the way the reserve analysis that we discussed last quarter. It is on page 20 of the appendix
and you will see on an adjusted basis based on all of these actions, we continue to have a very healthy loan-loss
reserve of 234% of our annualized net charge-offs on an adjusted basis.
If you turn to page 8, we thought we'd give you a little bit more description on the regulatory guidance. It
essentially required that substantially all the loans that we have on our books discharged under Chapter 7
bankruptcy be written down to their collateral value and that is regardless of their current delinquency status and
so that impacted about $2.8 billion of mortgage balances predominantly home equity loans and that's what added
the $825 million in charge-offs for the quarter.
I just want to give you -- highlight a couple of facts we have on the page, 97% of those loans that we just wrote
down to collateral value are current. 85% are actually paying principal. 50% have been making payments for at
least two years following bankruptcy, 80% for one year. And 85% of the portfolio's FICO scores have all improved
since bankruptcy, about 75 points on average. If these loans perform the way we expect them to, we would
expect to recover a significant amount of the current net charge-offs for this quarter over time.
The guidance as a result of this action impacted our nonaccrual loan balances as did the previous regulatory
guidance we implemented in the first quarter on junior liens. So if you see at the bottom right, we've tried to give
you a pro forma trend analysis and if you look at absent these changes the circled number of $5.1 billion on
nonaccrual, that's the number to compare apples-to-apples to the third quarter of last year and so you see a
reduction of a little over $1 billion in nonaccrual balances.
Page 9, Card Services & Auto, circled net income of $950 million, that's up 12% year-on-year. That's on revenues
of $4.7 billion. It's down slightly year on year but up 4% quarter on quarter. I mentioned before we saw strong
sales volume in card. In fact we have now had double-digit sales growth for the last seven quarters if you exclude
the [Kohl's] portfolio and we continue to believe this is market share growth as we get a larger percentage of
consumer spend in the United States.
The revenue rate you see on the page of $12.46 based on strong interchange revenues and lower reversals this
quarter and consistent with the guidance that Gordon had given you on Investor Day. Net charge-off rate
continued to decline 3.57%. That's down in absolute dollars $380 million year on year.
And just a quick moment on auto, had very solid performance, originations up 7%, 9% quarter on quarter and that
has really been based on the improving auto environment as well as continuing strength in used car pricing.
A final note on expenses, they are down 9% year on year and that's largely due to lower marketing costs.
If you turn to page 10, the commercial bank, circled net income of $690 million, that is as I mentioned, on record
revenues of $1.7 billion driven by record loan balances. C&I growth for our portfolio continues to exceed the
industry average, so it was 19% year on year versus a 13% industry average growth. Record middle-market loan
balances now for the 10th consecutive quarter, up 15% year on year.
I will note utilization continues to remain relatively flat and given the strong cash positions on a number of our
customers and the current environment, we are not sure that we haven't reached a new normal here in terms of
utilization.
The credit environment continues to be very benign in the commercial bank so excluding recoveries, 9 basis
points of charge-offs this quarter.
Page 3 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Treasury & Security Services on page 11, net income of $420 million, that's up a little under 40% year on year but
down from a seasonally strong second quarter. Revenues are up 6% year on year and that's really the result of
the higher deposit balances. You see particular growth by the way in international deposits and higher average
trade finance loan volumes international trade grew -- loans grew almost 25% year on year. We also had record
assets under custody during the quarter.
One note here on investment spending as we continue to invest, this is now beginning to be offset by some of the
efficiency initiatives that we've talked about in prior quarters. So it actually reduced expenses year on year and
quarter on quarter and the impact you see is improving margins year over year.
Asset management on page 12, $440 million of net income, up 15% year on year and 13% quarter on quarter.
That's on revenues of $2.5 billion. The results in the quarter really driven by the improving markets as well as the
continuation of long-term product flows. You will see it's our 14th consecutive quarter of long-term flows, almost
$21 billion this quarter. We have had a little under $60 billion over the last 12 months into long-term portfolios and
that's really based on continued strong investment performance as well as the banker buildout we've been
investing in.
Loan growth as I mentioned, is up almost $20 billion year on year and that's really from increasing contributions
from mortgage production as well as international.
If you turn to page 13, Corporate & Private Equity, net income for the quarter totaled $220 million. It reflects really
a number of things. So in private equity, you see net income loss of $90 million. That is principally mark-to-market
positions for the quarter. In treasury and CIO, net income of $370 million; that's on revenues of $713 million. I'm
going to talk about that revenue in a number of items.
First, we had almost $900 million in revenues from the extinguishment of the gains on the redeemed TruPS. We
told you about that during our second-quarter call.
If you second, look to mark-to-market losses in CIO, it was a loss of approximately $250 million and included in
that loss was $450 million from a loss on the remaining index positions that we left in CIO. That really reflects
credit spread tightening that we had this quarter and you will note that we have effectively closed those positions
out now by quarter end.
Third, we did recognize $460 million of pretax gains through securities gains and in addition while not on the page
here, we did mention last quarter our AFS-related AOCI, so that's our security portfolio gains was $8 billion
pretax. That number actually increased to $11 billion, a $3 billion increase on a pretax basis, $2 billion after taxes.
And then the final component here is we did book negative NII given the low rate environment and given that
environment and the reinvestment opportunities which I'll talk about on the NIM page, you would expect to see
this line item be a loss of $300 million plus or minus for next quarter and that will obviously have an impact on
NIM as well.
The last piece is other corporate here. We booked $700 million approximately in pretax cost for additional
litigation reserves and that was largely offset by a number of items including some tax adjustments this quarter.
So if you turn to page 14 on NIM, you see that NIM declined 4 basis points quarter on quarter. Our core NIM
declined 8 basis points quarter on quarter and a number of items affecting NIM for the quarter on the negative
side, prepayment speeds impacted the yields of the mortgage portfolio in our AFS portfolio.
Secondly as I mentioned, ongoing rate environment and the impact on reinvestment opportunities impacted NIM
as well as repricing of our floating-rate instruments in that portfolio given the low rate environment. And the third is
really a mix issue. We increased our average deposits for central banks this quarter primarily in the Fed and that
impacted NIM as well.
Now on the positive side, we did have a reduction in costs for deposits that were paid across our deposit-taking
businesses this quarter.
And the last note here is our long-term debt balances and interest expense were down on average quarter on
quarter but the long-term debt rate benefit that we got from repurchasing -- redeeming the TruPS was more than
offset this quarter by the impact of accounting primarily FAS 133 hedging effectiveness that we've talked about
over a number of quarters. And given all of what I just talked about going forward, and the current rate
environment, we would expect to see continued modest pressure on NIM for the next several quarters.
Page 4 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

I think I have covered the significant points on page 15 and have talked about all the issues in terms of outlook on
page 16. So with that, operator, can I ask you to open up the line for questions for Jamie and myself?
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Glenn Schorr, Nomura.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Thank you. Obviously great mortgage production. I'm curious if you can
parse out how much related to HARP versus the overall rate environment and if you think you have any visibility
as we head into fourth quarter and next year?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: The refi was about 75% and HARP was about 15% in total and next quarter will probably
be pretty good because you still have low rates and the pipeline stuff is still pretty high -- the applications.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay, thank you. Staying with the mortgage theme, I guess I'm looked -- the overall message
seems like -- in your words -- housing has turned and you lowered reserves a little bit. You've got a lot more
reserves to go, so what things do you look for for that to continue? Is there -- is it apples and oranges when you
look at the other side of the coin and see that repurchase claims are up, litigation reserves are up? And there has
been a whole lot of press lately about some cases going against the industry or some court rulings going against
the industry on the put back side.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Glenn, maybe I can separate it out. On the mortgage reserve side, what we said in outlook
is if the trends continue the way we are you should expect to see more reserve releases, but that is subject to the
current trends.
On the repurchase side, that data in the back in the supplement is both GSE and private label, so the trends we
talked about last quarter on the GSE side that run through the mortgage lines continue. And so you saw our
actual paid claims at [230], our reserve release I think is [218] if I'm recalling correctly. We expect that subject to
obviously certain changes to continue.
And then on private label, we have told you based on what we knew that we thought we were well reserved for
those issues but obviously circumstances can change and that will change our reserving policy when and if
appropriate.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay, last quickie. Is there still about a 30 basis points delta for what you are showing us on
the advanced approach on Basel III Tier 1 common and if you use the standardized?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, so are you asking if you are -- the delta has shrunk. If you are asking -- which we
didn't put in the impact of NPR on Basel I, that also has shrunk as well.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Cool. I can follow the rest off-line.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: The only thing I want to say about capital,
the 8.4% Basel III, which obviously is an estimate, up front phases in everything that we know of today. It does
not phase in what we know about our own run off and the ability to create new models down the road to reduce it.
So we would estimate if you did all that, we are close to 9.5%.
GLENN SCHORR: Close to 9.5 -JAMIE DIMON: As we're phasing all the bad stuff up front and not any of the good stuff. The good stuff is the
runoff we know is going to happen in the next two years and that we obviously are going to build models to do -to have a better RWA outcomes on CRM and some other issues. And it's just not in there yet.
GLENN SCHORR: Understood, and last one on the resubmission, is that a November event for when we get
thumbs up, thumbs down from the Fed?
JAMIE DIMON: We don't know. They will let us know. Remember, this only affects the first-quarter buyback,
which is not that substantial for our Company and we have to reapply for the full year CCAR, which would affect
what we can do after March 31, which we will be doing soon. That's the more important number.
GLENN SCHORR: Got it, okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.
Page 5 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. A question on just the reinvestment
strategy. Doug, you mentioned going through page 14 the challenges. I guess the question is do you at this stage
continue reinvesting in RMBS to the extent that you have the runoff occurring today? Obviously the front of the
curve collapsed there in RMBS or do you go into more treasuries and Ginnies given the fact that you are a little
light on the asset class anyway -- relative spread has improved or do you loosen the credit box and try to drive up
the loan growth?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Number three, definitely, which is loan growth is probably more important. I wouldn't say
it's loosening the credit box, it just may be more a little competitive on pricing. Treasuries, no, and the benchmark
for the reinvestment of the portfolio would be Fannies or Ginnies or Freddies. But obviously there are issues to
that about the convexity it creates when you do that.
And the other theme which we obviously are working through with new RWA, there are certain things -- you've got
to combine the liquidity you need with the RWA charges.
So right now we are staying fairly conservative. There will be other opportunities down the road.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and on the loan side, you think you can drive some incremental loan growth through
just pricing activity just being more competitive on rate?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I think jumbo yes, just be more competitive on rates and we think they are very good
credits going forward and you can see we are growing the commercial bank. We are growing auto; card we hope
to grow. So we want to grow all those things. We've got good margins. We want to push the loan growth a little
bit.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so then switching gears, just talk a little bit about FICC, FICC results very good this
quarter. The question on the outlook has to do with some of the structural changes that are going on as we move
into next year in particular clearing, where there's some debate around collateral requirements, collateral shortfall,
not going to be able to re-hypothecate as much going forward as you did -- as you are able to right now.
So how are you thinking about the FICC line and what are you doing to try to maintain the kind of run rate that
you've got given those pressures?
JAMIE DIMON: We don't know there's going to be a quote collateral shortfall. It's not quite clear yet and the rules
for collateral -- the liquidity stuff is not quite clear yet. Clearing houses, they are both an opportunity and a risk
and so we hope to get -- we are building the systems so we can provide cross collateral for clients and ease of
transaction and cheap transactions for clients. Obviously it may change some of the volume that goes to other
things.
But I'm not sure in total that that's going to change a lot the FICC line. Our experience has been as things go to
clearing houses or electronic execution, sometimes volume goes up and makes up for it.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, I'm good. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. Jamie, I am really interested in getting sort of your view
on how you think QE3 overall is going to impact JPMorgan specifically. So we can see obviously the short-term
benefits of a lot of mortgage origination revenue, potentially a positive impact on the economy but of course the
negative is lower mortgage rates, lower MBS rates, and what that does to the margin. So I'm sort of interested in
getting your view on is QE3 a good thing or bad thing for JPMorgan?
JAMIE DIMON: You basically laid it all out already, which is lower rates hurts you a little bit. They obviously help
mortgage origination and ultimately housing prices, because low rates could drive that part of the economy a little
bit. If it were to drive the economy and I'm not sure it will, that would be a plus for us. So I think they're doing their
job not to help banks or hurt banks but to try to drive the economy and drive jobs. If that works, it's a good plus.
I personally think that fiscal policy is going to be more important than the Fed policy soon. The Fed needs help
with rational fiscal policy.
ED NAJARIAN: How do you think about this idea that in the near term clearly you are going to mint a lot of extra
money on the mortgage refi boom but once that's behind you, you are simply left with a lower margin. Is that -how much does that concern you or not?
Page 6 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Not a lot. If you look at -- the margins in production are very high. They're well over like 2% and a
norm would be under 1%. So obviously one day that will normalize. In the meantime, you get volume and higher
spreads. On the other hand, we have huge excess servicing costs which probably would more than offset that
and when housing recovers, charges will come down. So to me if the economy gets better, we are fine. You lose
some production income but everything else will be better.
ED NAJARIAN: And then finally, there's a lot of big banks that are sort of framing a component of their operating
expenses that they think is abnormally high right now based on the extra mortgage servicing, the foreclosure, all
the things related to continuing through the end of this credit cycle. Is there any sort of number or sort of range
that you would think about that we should think about for JPMorgan in terms of those excess mortgage-related
costs coming down as housing continues to recover?
JAMIE DIMON: The big one to look at is the excess servicing costs due to the high level defaults and the high
cost defaults and the consent orders and look at that number as about $500 million a quarter, it's a little more than
that. That number will eventually be zero. But I don't think it's going round to zero. It will probably take eight
quarters before it goes down to a number approaching zero. Maybe more. It's going to take a while to work
through all of that but that number will disappear.
Production income will also come down at one point for all the reasons you said. When rates go back up, you're
not going to have all the refis we have today and you'll probably have more competition on purchase money
originations reducing margins and obviously when the housing recovers, the losses we are bearing on charge offs
will reduce too on just owning the real estate portfolio.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.
BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Just to follow up actually
on a question from Ed and the eight quarters that you indicated, Jamie, any idea -- that's actually a pretty -- it's
obviously an extended time period. Any idea about what the trend line would look like or is it too early? Is it going
to -- is most of the benefit that comes from that reduction going to be back-end weighted or will it be pretty linear?
Any idea about that?
JAMIE DIMON: I would expect none next quarter. I would expect a little bit in 2013 and a lot in 2014. But those
are just -- those are just rough estimates. We don't really know.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Of course, great. That helps, thanks. Then the $700 million of litigation this quarter, does
that mean that you guys had adverse development or was it largely one-time items there? I guess said another
way, is there an adjustment from the previous views that litigation reserves really don't need to be built from this
point?
JAMIE DIMON: No, I think you are separating. When we talk about mortgage, the private label stuff, we said we
thought were substantially and fairly well gone but there is other mortgage stuff that goes in and out and we
adjust for. And there's constant other litigation.
So when we can -- when we know we have something we can estimate what it is, we put up litigation reserves for
it. Unfortunately I think litigation costs will stay high for a while too. They are just constant development of
litigation. It's not all mortgage-related.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, then thinking about CCAR application, not just this quarter's but also next year's, are
you approaching it any differently or is there any increased caution when you think about the fact that there was a
material weakness of internal control at JPMorgan? It seems like that might be something that could really
sharpen the pencils at the regulators. And so we're just kind of curious as you approach the application whether
or not that adjusted how you thought about your application at all?
JAMIE DIMON: Listen, look, it's obvious that we had a gap in the armor here, like I say, an arrow went right
through that gap. But other than that gap we think we have pretty damn good controls in stuff like that. That
material weakness will be fixed.
We have huge -- we've got a great Company. We've got huge cash flows, huge capability and we could probably
buy back a lot of stock next year and still hit the 9.5% Basel III at one point. And so I think a rational thing to do is
if the stock is at the right price to buy back stock. Obviously we are going to apply and we don't know -- the CCAR
rules will change next year so when we see those rules, we will decide.
Page 7 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Yes, early going understood. Just was curious whether or not that was going to adjust your
approach at all.
JAMIE DIMON: I would hope not. I would hope that when you look at the Company in total you see pretty good
disciplines and pretty good controls.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Fair enough. And then last one from me, I know that nothing is official but I don't know
whether or not you or Doug might want to comment on the story in the Journal that got some attention yesterday
about maybe different roles for Doug in the future or anything -- or who might be his successor if Doug decided he
wanted to do something different.
JAMIE DIMON: Obviously, I find it hugely irritating that people yapped to the press like that, but Doug is a top
professional. He ran our US investment bank coverage for many years. He has been a top CFO and we have no
-- we will let you know when and if we intend to make changes when we make them not through gossip in the
press.
I should point out we have a very strong bench in this Company. We've got a lot of talented people so if and when
we make a decision like that, we will make it. I also want to point out, we always have conversations with senior
people and everybody about the future for them, their career, what they want to do next when the timing makes
sense for them in the Company. That's kind of a normal conversation. I wouldn't put that as an abnormal type of
conversation.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Fair enough. Actually one more, sorry. Trying to think about the implications of this
announcement of the Bear lawsuit that was announced. As I thought about it, wouldn't this -- if you have the
ability to come after a firm that acquires a troubled financial institution at a time of crisis after the fact
opportunistically with perhaps political motivations, shouldn't that raise concerns from a safety and soundness
perspective with the Fed? Isn't that kind of a key tool that the Fed uses in times of crisis? Shouldn't that sort of
create an issue for this lawsuit?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm not sure it creates an issue for the lawsuit but I agree with you as a policy matter, it's going to
make it much harder in the future for companies to buy a troubled company.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. Kind of following up on that a little bit, Jamie,
you made some comments earlier in the week about kind of the ongoing costs of some of those -- or the total
costs I should say of some of those acquisitions. I would assume that some of the costs in the quarter, both
litigation and otherwise, you are still kind of feeling that. Have you ever sized or are you willing to size what that
might be?
JAMIE DIMON: I also want to mention when the government bankrupted GM, you do remember they did bankrupt
GM, they absolved GM of all private legal liability, so the government is being a little inconsistent here.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Clearly.
JAMIE DIMON: So when I made comment publicly at another forum that when we did Bear Stearns, remember
we put substantial reserves in purchase accounting so it didn't run through the P&L for close down costs,
litigation, consolidation, and materially risk management, like to get down the risk that we got in Bear Stearns. So
it including that number, was the [work] we put in purchase accounting. Since then, we've put up more reserves
for mortgage-related stuff somewhat related to Bear Stearns, somewhat related to WaMu, some were related to
JP Morgan Chase itself and so it's increased the cost to us. That's unfortunate but that is life and we've reserved
for the things we know about and we think about now that we --. So it is in our numbers, the comments I'm
making, we are not future-looking additional reserves.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. On a separate matter, the card business had pretty strong revenues this quarter. Is
there anything that you could kind of call out in terms of what drove that improvement? Is there something going
on there and can we expect that to continue?
JAMIE DIMON: First of all, the losses there are very low and you really should not expect much improvement
from here. They are historical lows and --. But what we are really proud of in the card businesses is that these
new products, Sapphire, Freedom, [Inc]., products like blueprint or rewards programs, are doing well. We've been
gaining share every single year for four years now in card.
Page 8 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

And you see it in the spend numbers not in the outstanding numbers but in the spend. So spend was up like 11%.
If you compare that to a lot of competitors, it's more than double the growth of the average competitor and that's
obviously driving revenues.
We also have a merchant processor in there which I think if I remember correctly grew 18%. That's in the revenue
line so the card business has been doing very well. They're finally making up the years that they didn't do very
well.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right, just a follow-up at the Investor Day, I think Gordon had mentioned that you
expected kind of marketing spend to be kind of flattish in 2012 and I think Doug had alluded today saying that part
of the recent costs were down was that marketing spend was down. Given that performance, is it something that
you are going to start marketing more aggressively or is there just enough spending going on?
JAMIE DIMON: Marketing with high last quarter and normal this quarter is the way I'd look at it. But marketing to
me is an investment in the future, so if we come up with plans and marketing plans we think are going to have
very good returns, we are going to spend the money. That's what we do. We don't sit here and set a marketing
budget and meet it. We actually try to review all of the programs we have and when we have attractive things to
do, we're going to do them even if it reduces the current quarter profits.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.
MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. You spoke a bit about getting more
aggressive on loan pricing in part because you feel better about the economy and in part because of just the
lower for longer interest rates. But what do you need to see to lower lending standards a little bit specifically on
the consumer side as we think about mortgage and card and maybe even auto?
JAMIE DIMON: Can you repeat the question again?
MATT O'CONNOR: In short, what do you need to see either macro-wise in the economy or from a regulatory
point of view to loosen some of the lending standards, which I think for the industry are quite high in the consumer
side?
JAMIE DIMON: Mortgage is high. Mortgage is high. Appraisal standards are too high. The verification income is
extreme and since we don't know the rules of securitizations in QRM, I think it's going to loosen over time. I think
doing mortgages today, you get very good credits, very good underlying collateral. Remember a lot of credits
can't get loans today. It will loosen over time.
And I think you just need a stronger economy and some decisions with some of these regulatory rules or even
some of the Basel rules could create kind of cliffs in mortgages so the risk-weighted assets -- I think if you go
below 680 FICO, it dramatically jumps. There's huge incentive not to do any mortgage below 680.
And so I think some of those things hopefully will be sorted out in the next six months or nine months. And credit
card, auto, student, and other, I don't think you should expect to see major changes.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, then just separately as we think about other levers because rates are going to stay
lower for longer, anything on the expense side that you are thinking about or could talk about?
JAMIE DIMON: We are doing budgets now and we are always going to drive efficiency and expenses. And our
expenses, what I like about our expenses is in those numbers is constant investment. And you see that, more
bankers, more branches, more systems, more countries, more -- that is what's important for driving the future of
the Company.
So obviously some expenses will be going up because they are good expenses and the bad -- some expenses
coming down as we become more efficient and we're always trying to drive down what I call bad expenses -expenses driven by bureaucracy, stupidity, and stuff like that. So we're going to try to -- we will fine tune it and
when we have Investor Day next year, we will probably give you a better outlook for what we expect.
But right now an expectation would be kind of level plus what we can save to offset the investments.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, just lastly on some of these servicing-related costs, I realize there's a lot of puts and
takes. I often get asked the question -- home prices are starting to go up, how quickly do these costs come down?
Obviously the time to foreclose has actually increased I think versus six to nine months ago. What's the one or
Page 9 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

two key macro data points that we can watch to be somewhat of a leading or even coincident indicator for these
servicing costs?
JAMIE DIMON: So in servicing, it's $500 million a quarter which will eventually go to zero and the real driver of
that is things in default, delinquency or foreclosure. As those things come down, you're going to see those costs
come down. Second, we have to finish the consent order and that but I think they are all kind of related.
In real estate, home prices going up will reduce real estate losses. Jobs will reduce real estate losses. The
number of homes under water is 2 million less now than it was like a year ago so obviously those things will all be
pluses. I think you just need a good economy and you will see charge-offs start to come down more -- faster than
they have been coming down recently.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. First question is what is loan utilization this quarter versus last
three quarters?
JAMIE DIMON: Can you turn up your mic, Doug. I can't hear you Doug.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: You can't hear me, Jamie?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, we got you.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: (multiple speakers) So, Mike, it's loan utilization in the commercial bank?
MIKE MAYO: However you can give it to us.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We typically talk about utilization in the commercial bank particularly in the middle market.
It's in the low 30s and it hasn't changed much and I mentioned that is because most of those companies are very
flush with cash as well and so until they start to really invest more, you're going to see those utilization rates
around what they are.
MIKE MAYO: Okay, and your margin guidance, it seems a little bit worse than before. If that's simply due to QE3?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, our NIM guidance is largely identical to what we said last quarter, modest pressure.
MIKE MAYO: But you say for a few more quarters it seems like it is pressure for longer or no?
JAMIE DIMON: It could be, because the implied curve has pushed lower rates out much longer, so the
depression could go on for a little bit longer than we would have thought before.
But Mike, remember that that also relates to decisions we are going to make, how long the duration of our
portfolio is, what we do in making loans, how we want to manage the risk-weighted assets. There's been a lot of
changes in the business. We've got to adjust to those changes.
MIKE MAYO: Part of that adjustment, is that being more competitive on pricing for loans?
JAMIE DIMON: I would say competitive but not necessarily more competitive, so we try to stay competitive in
most pricing. Get under -- do the credit right and be competitive on price is more important than being competitive
in pricing but -- don't be competitive in pricing but have bad underlying credit standards.
MIKE MAYO: So are you lowering pricing on your loans?
JAMIE DIMON: On jumbo loans, we did a little bit. Most of the loans probably not.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Mike, I will tell you in the NIM this quarter, you look at the loan yields relatively flat across
the Company. But again as the environment, low rate environment and people looking for assets to put on their
balance sheet, we are going to have to remain competitive.
JAMIE DIMON: Actually inn jumbo, I would say we actually we just reduced rates to meet the market. We were
probably a little high.

Page 10 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE MAYO: I guess what I'm leading to is how elastic is loan pricing? If you assume that the lack of loan growth
in aggregate for the US is not due to the supply of money but is due to the demand for money, will lowering
pricing actually improve that demand? And I know it's a difficult question to answer but it goes to how much lower
you might want to price your loans?
JAMIE DIMON: We're not going to price a lot lower to create demand or something like that. I think it's a little
elastic. We see the elastic in jumbo. We're not going to change our underwriting standards in card. We're not
going to change our underrating standards in pricing. We got a little more competitive in auto but again that's just
following the business. The business, these are competitive businesses and we have to compete. We have to
decide whether we are going to meet lower prices or not so in auto and home -- and jumbo we did. I would say in
the commercial corporate side, probably not much.
MIKE MAYO: Then one more question on the margin as it relates to mortgage. I know this is a tough question.
How much longer do you think the mortgage margin should hold up in terms of the gain on sale or what factors
should we think about when modeling that?
JAMIE DIMON: I think as long as rates stay low, refis will stay high and volume would be high and very
high-volume clogs up the system and allows higher pricing. I think that once you start to see rates go up, which
personally I think will probably happen sometime in 2013, but I don't know that, you're going to see lower refi and
more competitive pricing, more home purchase but more competitive pricing.
So you can't -- we don't expect to count on the high margins and mortgage origination forever. Maybe you're
going to have it -- you're going to have it next quarter maybe for a couple of quarters after that but it won't last for
that much longer.
MIKE MAYO: All right, thanks a lot.
OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Jamie, first maybe a pretty big
picture question. Given that we are heading towards the fiscal cliff by the end of the year, what is your outlook
particularly in the investment bank and in the commercial banking segments for the fourth quarter and into the
first half of next year, given some of the political risk that we face over the next few months?
JAMIE DIMON: When you talk about the fourth quarter, I don't -- as you look at the commercial bank, you can
pretty much project the results for next quarter. So the fiscal cliff isn't going to change us. It's NII from loans in the
books and from treasury deposits and things like that.
The investment bank would be more sensitive to what the market reacts to if they get very scared about the fiscal
cliff, but I just don't -- we just don't know. We're going to be prepared. JPMorgan will try to be there for its clients
regardless and I'm not just going to drive the fourth-quarter results that much. I think the only place you will see it
really drive it would be in the investment bank if volume had dropped dramatically. But I can give you arguments
why fiscal cliff could drive volumes up in the short run.
MATT BURNELL: Doug, maybe for you a question on the investment banking VAR, which was on a reported
basis up about 70% plus. There appears to be a methodology change in the third quarter versus the second
quarter. Can you provide a little more detail as to how we should think about that and what you are thinking about
the VAR in the fourth quarter?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, so I did say much of that increase was the transfer of the synthetic credit portfolio
which we expected, some other mix changes. The model changes we updated models for that portfolio based on
investment banking models which we believe are a better indicator of risk and there was a little less diversification
benefit this quarter. These VAR numbers are well within the numbers that the IB has operated in before and we
did I think qualify at a companywide level the impact of the model change reduced VAR companywide by a little
over $35 million.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, then a question on your deposit costs. They are down about 6 basis points
quarter-over-quarter, as you mentioned, Doug, in your prepared remarks. How -- one side of the question is how
much lower do you think you can get those? And if you are not able to drive those down, what effect does that
have on NIM pressure over the next couple of quarters?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It's likely we're getting close to the bottom there and so to the extent other factors continue
to have pressure, you're going to see a little bit more slippage. I will say some offsets that we didn't get the benefit
Page 11 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

of from a hedge accounting standpoint is our financing costs. We would expect to see some improvements there
absent the accounting changes.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, then finally from me, you noted that peripheral European exposure on a net basis was a
little less than $12 billion this quarter versus a $6.3 billion net number last quarter. It looks like most of the
increase came in Italy and Spain. Is there any color you can provide on what's going on there?
JAMIE DIMON: The increase is mostly from the reduction in short positions out of the synthetic credit portfolio.
MATT BURNELL: Okay. Thank you very much.
JAMIE DIMON: The rest is kind of business as usual in Italy and Spain. We are still doing business there. You
should expect to see that exposure go up a little bit from here, too.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Erika Penala, Bank of America.
ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. I just had one follow-up question to
Brennan's question. Jamie, you are entering this stress test in 2013 with more capital and more earnings power
than you did for the 2012 CCAR. And you also mentioned that it will be business as usual in terms of how you
formulate your ask. So if the synthetic credit loss isn't really going to impact the process in your ask, is it safe for
us to assume that you will ask for at least as much as you did last year if not more?
JAMIE DIMON: First, we don't have the final CCAR rules yet and they're going to change some of them and
we've got to see that before we see it. We are also working through all the new RWA rules, the Basel II.5, the
NPR, Basel III and all the new liquidity rules LCR. We are going to get it all right and then we are going to apply. I
think we will be able to buy back a substantial amount of stock and meet the 9.5% Basel III in 2013, by late 2013.
But I can't give you the number right now. There may be more or less than last year what we applied for.
ERIKA PENALA: Okay, that's it for me. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR one.
PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR: Thank you very much. Jamie, on -- going back to mortgage originations on the
correspondent channel, you've really been increasing market share. Is that something that -- I know there's a lot
of opportunities out there with a lot of guys exiting that business and I know in the past that you've shrunk that a
little bit. But is that something that we should continue to see if the mortgage market remains healthy to grow
market share in that channel?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I think -- we did shrink it. I've got the number 2500 down to 700 or 800 more looking at the
complete relationship in correspondent but the correspondent side, I think it is a pure economic transaction. Other
people get out of the business and we probably just end up with a little bit more share for that region. It's not a big
strategic thrust. If the mortgage folks come in and say that they can generate a lot of servicing in a very economic
rate and do more, we would do more.
PAUL MILLER: Okay, then another question is you saw Wells Fargo get hit with a Department of Justice suit on
FHA originations and I know there's been a lot of litigation for all these institutions. Have you had any talks with
the Department of Justice on what -- I know BofA settled with these guys on these same issues. Have you had
any talks? Has it been disclosed any talks with the Department of Justice on these FHA type originations?
JAMIE DIMON: We haven't disclosed anything or -- but I would expect that when these things come out
everyone's going to have to do -- have something of the same order just in the ordinary course of business. It's
unlikely that you have one -- three people get it and not the fourth.
PAUL MILLER: And then lastly, you talked about -JAMIE DIMON: But we are not very big in FHA.
PAUL MILLER: Than the other last one is you talked about I think Michael Mayo asked I forget who that you don't
see anybody really doing FICOs below 680. Is that just putting on your portfolio or 680 and selling to the GSEs?
You know that the --

Page 12 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Conforming loans, you sell them. That's fine. You meet their standards. What I was referring to is
that some of the new Basel rules create these little cliffs on risk-weighted assets and if I remember correctly, one
of the cliffs that's created when you go post 700 or 680 or 650 and that therefore you are going to -- it's going to
be harder for certain people to own mortgages even if they are very well underwritten -- even 60% loan-to-value is
below 680 because of the high risk-weighted capital charge.
I think some of that is stifling mortgage originations to those folks. That's what I'm saying and I think it should
loosen up over time and I'm not sure the regulators intended that when they put up the new Basel rules.
PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much, Jamie.
OPERATOR: David Konrad, KBW.
DAVID KONRAD, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Good morning. I just had a question regarding the
comp ratio in IB, came in at least lower than I expected at 32%. I guess is that of mix shift in the revenues this
quarter? And maybe if you give any color for next quarter, maybe I think in a long-term comp ratio guidance was
35% to 39%, should we think of that as being lower longer-term?
JAMIE DIMON: We've always said 35% to 40%. We actually use a formula which uses returns on capital and the
type of revenues and the type of profits, etc. risk-adjusted and all that. So that's the numbers that generally go
through. But as a rule of thumb, I would think about 35% being a good number.
DAVID KONRAD: Okay, thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: Obviously every year it changes and competition changes and whether you're investing in certain
parts of the world, you may fund that separately because you can't take that out of -- current people working hard
today to fund a big investment in another part of the world. So it will change over time, but 35%.
If you look at our investment bank, 35% comp I think it's like 25% non-comp, which means we have a 40%
margin. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. If we can sustain that, I would be a very happy guy in a competitive
environment.
DAVID KONRAD: Great, thank you.
OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, Jamie was quoted the other day saying that
JPMorgan was establishing a fiscal cliff war room and I was wondering just can you tell us what exactly you
meant by that and how you are positioning the firm for that?
JAMIE DIMON: I think I was referring to that -- I was asked a question in the Council of Foreign Relations about
the Eurozone crisis and the fiscal cliff. We do have a kind of war room Eurozone crisis. We've done extensive
work on it. I also mentioned we'd probably spent $50 million or so getting prepared for the debt crisis that we had
nine months ago or so.
And we are preparing -- I wouldn't call it a war room, you misstated it, we are -- we've got to get prepared for the
fiscal cliff. What does it mean? Maybe not so much for us but for our clients, how are they going to react? What
do we have to be prepared to do? Unfortunately when things like a fiscal -- if the fiscal actually happens, you have
to be prepared for various scenarios including the worst possible one even if you don't predict it.
So that's what we are really thinking. What could really happen? What are we missing? How bad could it be? We
have got to be prepared for it. We are hoping it doesn't happen.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: That's it for me, thank you.
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.
JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning. Two questions. I think one on
what's left -- you had transferred -- you closed out of the positions in CIO and transferred the rest to the
investment bank. Can you give us any update on your thoughts on when that would be completely exited? And
any other indications of size or impact in the quarter would be great.
JAMIE DIMON: So last time we gave you some measures, CSO ones, VAR, RWA and a couple of stress tests,
we said extreme stress, $800 million to $1.6 billion. That was July 13. Almost any measure you look at of risk
Page 13 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

would be down 20%, 30%, or 40%. So certain risks are down 40%, certain risks down 30%, certain 20% and the
stress risk in addition to down by that amount, the folks are doing a great job managing it. They had a modest
loss this quarter. We feel completely comfortable with it.
It obviously can lose money, can also make money and we always said we hope by the end of the year it's a
nonissue and we don't have to talk about it anymore. We're still on track for that.
JIM MITCHELL: And so it seems like it's reasonably well hedged in the investment bank.
JAMIE DIMON: The folks are doing a great job hedging every conceivable piece of it they know about, while
conducting client business.
JIM MITCHELL: Right. Okay, maybe a follow-up on Europe. Certainly the funding environment has gotten better.
Do you feel that there has been somewhat of a game change there and are you feeling better about markets,
embracing marketshare opportunities there and putting more balance sheet to work or you still have some
hesitation in Europe?
JAMIE DIMON: You know, in the last couple months they have made I would say a lot of progress if you look at
the OMT even though it has conditions but it is a big statement to make sovereign debt good for Italy and Spain.
The conversations about the banking union and guaranteed programs which would protect from a run in the
banks in Spain and Italy and also trying to redo this fiscal which would take years with the fiscal agreement
among the Eurozone nation.
So I think they've made a lot of progress. You see it reflected in bond rates. I still think it's going to be a roller
coaster. There will be ups and downs as things -- good things happen or bad things happen. They are only in a
mild recession. I think that's a very good thing and we have always made a decision to continue to conduct
business in France and Germany and the UK and Spain and Italy.
So we continue to be worried about it. We're going to be prepared for bad outcomes but we are there and if there
are opportunities -- we haven't seen -- unbelievable opportunities like asset sales or something like that, we will
participate. If they are assets we want or things we want to do.
JIM MITCHELL: Right, so you think the tone -- the improved tone in September is sort of carrying so far into the
fourth quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: I hope so, but we aren't running the Company guessing on things like that. We run the Company
trying to build our client business and I hope so. I hope they continue to make progress. The tone is good. We are
prepared for if that's not true, too.
JIM MITCHELL: Okay, great. I'm done. Thanks.
OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time. Are there any closing comments?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm just surprised no one mentioned how handsome Doug Braunstein looked in the article in The
Wall Street Journal.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: On that final note, thank you all very much.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you, folks. I'll talk to you.
OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
Page 14 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020121026e8ac000ru

Page 15 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

