Q3 2018 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
10,500 words
12 October 2018
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
© 2018 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Third Quarter 2018 Earnings
Call. This call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan
Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go
ahead.
MARIANNE LAKE, EXECUTIVE VP & CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, operator. Good morning,
everyone. I'm going to take you through the presentation, which is available on our website. Please refer to the
disclaimer at the back of the presentation.
Starting on Page 1. The firm reported net income of $8.4 billion and EPS of $2.34 on revenue of $27.8 billion, with
a return on tangible common equity of 17%. The results this quarter were strong. Record net income for a third
quarter, even excluding the impact of tax reform, with key drivers being higher net interest income across
businesses, reflecting continued rate normalization and solid growth in both loans and deposits as well as very
strong credit performance across all portfolios. Highlights include average core loan growth excluding the CIB of
6% year-on-year, card and debit sales as well as client investment assets and merchant processing volumes in
Consumer were all up double digits. We gained share in global IB fees and across all regions year-to-date. And in
Asset & Wealth Management, AUM and client assets were both up 7%.
Turning to Page 2 and some more detail about our third quarter results. Revenue of $27.8 billion was up $1.4
billion or 5% year-on-year. Net interest income was up $945 million or 7%, reflecting the impact of higher rates
net of lower Markets NII as well as loan and deposit growth. Noninterest revenue was up $425 million driven by
Markets NIR and higher auto lease income, partially offset by markdowns on certain legacy private equity
investments. Expense of $15.6 billion was up 7% year-on-year. More than half of the increase relates to
investments we're making in technology, marketing, bankers broadly defined and real estate. And the remainder
is driven by revenue-related costs, principally higher Auto lease depreciation and transaction expenses on higher
volumes. Credit trends remain favorable across both Consumer and Wholesale. For the quarter, credit costs of
$950 million were down $500 million year-on-year, driven by changes in Consumer reserves.
Briefly on Page 3, turning to balance sheet and capital. There's little to say here other than as you can see, capital
and risk-weighted assets remain basically flat quarter-on-quarter, with a CET1 ratio of 12%.
Moving on to Page 4 and Consumer & Community Banking. CCB generated $4.1 billion of net income and an
ROE of 31%. Core loans were up 6% year-on-year driven by Home Lending, up 10%; Business Banking, up 5%;
Card, up 4%; and Auto loans and leases, up 3%. Deposits grew 4% year-on-year, continuing to outpace the
industry although slower than a year ago. According to the recently released FDIC annual survey, we grew at
nearly 2x the average, and we were the fastest-growing bank in 9 of our top 10 markets. Chase Auto lands the #1
spot in customer satisfaction in the J.D. Power U.S. National Banking Satisfaction Study.
Client investment assets were up 14% as we saw clear record net new money flows more than doubling
year-on-year, with flows accounting for more than half of the growth. Card sales volume was up 12%, with
strength across our portfolio, and we also saw very strong debit sales performance, up 13%. Revenue of $13.3
billion was up 10%. Consumer & Business Banking revenue, up 18% on higher NII driven by continued margin
expansion and deposit growth. Home Lending revenue was down 16% as higher rates drive loan spread
Page 1 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

compression and a smaller market pressuring production margins. In addition, net servicing revenue was down
including the MSR.
Card, Merchant Services & Auto revenue was up 10% driven by higher Card NII on margin expansion and loan
growth, higher net Card fees on lower acquisition costs, substantially offset by lower net interchange and also on
higher Auto lease volumes.
Expense of $7 billion was up 7%, driven by continued investments in technology and by Auto lease depreciation.
The overhead ratio was 53%.
Finally, on Credit, starting with reserves. This quarter, we built reserves in Card of $150 million, largely driven by
growth. And we released reserves in the Home Lending purchase credit impaired portfolio of $250 million,
reflecting improvement in home prices and delinquencies.
On charge-offs, there are a few moving pieces. Year-on-year, charge-offs were down $137 million, driven by a
recovery from a reperforming loan sale in Home Lending this quarter of about $80 million together with an
approximately $50 million charge-off adjustment in Auto this period last year. Excluding those charge-offs, we're
about flat, but we are seeing improvement across all portfolios except for Card. And in Card, while charge-offs are
up as newer vintages season, they are up less than expected as credit performance remains very strong. At this
point, we expect Card charge-off rates for the year to be below our guidance at about 310 basis points.
Now turning to Page 5 and the Corporate & Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $2.6 billion and an ROE
of 14% on revenue of $8.8 billion, up 2%. In banking, we maintained our #1 ranking year-to-date in global IB fees
as well as in North America and EMEA and gained share across regions. For the quarter, IB revenue of $1.7
billion was flat to a strong prior year, and we outperformed in a market that was down meaningfully as we saw
robust activity, particularly in ECM. Equity underwriting fees were up 40%, gaining share across all products, with
continued strength in IPOs, particularly in technology and health care. Advisory fees were down 6% compared to
a third quarter record last year, outperforming the market and gaining share year-to-date. And debt underwriting
fees were down 11% although better than the market, as our strong lead-left positions drove share gains. Looking
forward, the overall pipeline remains strong, up solidly from the prior year across products.
Moving to Markets. Total revenue was $4.4 billion, down 2% or up 1% when adjusting for the impact of tax
reform. So another good performance. Fixed Income Markets revenue was down 6% adjusted with no single
predominant driver. We saw mild weakness in Rates, Financing, Credit Trading and Securitized Products as a
result of compressed margins and tighter financing spreads in range-bound and competitive markets. This was
partially offset by higher activity levels in emerging markets on volatility and commodities returning to more
normal levels relative to a weaker prior year.
Equities continued the momentum from previous quarters and was up across all segments on the back of strong
client activity. Equities revenue was up 17%, reflecting continued share gains in cash and prime and strong
performance in corporate derivatives.
Treasury Services and Securities Services revenue were $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, up 12% and 5%
year-on-year, respectively, driven by higher rates and balances. And Securities Services also benefited from
higher asset-based fees on new client activity. Quarter-on-quarter, Securities Services revenue was down
principally on seasonality and the impact of a business exit. Finally, expense of $5.2 billion was up 8% driven by
higher legal expense, higher compensation expense as we invest in technology and bankers and volume-related
transaction costs.
Moving to Commercial Banking on Page 6. Another strong quarter for this business, with net income of $1.1
billion and an ROE of 21%. Revenue of $2.3 billion was up 6% year-on-year driven by higher deposit NII. Gross
IB revenue of $581 million was flat, although we saw a strong underlying flow of business, and pipelines remain
robust and active.
On deposits, while we continue to benefit from the normalizing rate environments, as expected, balances are
down year-on-year and bases are trending higher as we are seeing some migration at the top end to
higher-yielding investments. Expense of $853 million was up 7% as we continue to invest in the business, in
banker coverage and technology initiatives. Loan balances were up 4% year-on-year and 1% sequentially. In C&I,
demand remains muted in the wake of tax reform. As well, client confidence is high, balance sheets are strong
and liquid and the environment is competitive. For us, C&I loans were up 4% year-on-year and flat sequentially, in
line with the industry. But if you decompose it, we're growing strongly in our expansion markets and specialized
industries, growing solidly in our core markets but are seeing notable offsets in tax-exempt activity given the mix
of our business. CRE loans were up 3% year-on-year, a little less than the industry as we are seeing increased
Page 2 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

competition and continue to be very selective. Finally, credit performance remains strong, with net recoveries of 3
basis points.
Moving on to Asset & Wealth Management on Page 7. Asset & Wealth Management reported net income of $724
million, with a pretax margin of 27% and an ROE of 31%. Revenue of $3.6 billion was up 3% year-on-year, driven
by higher management fees net of fee compression on higher market levels and continued growth in long-term
products. These were partially offset by lower mark-to-market gains including on seed capital investments.
Additionally, banking results were strong. Expense of $2.6 billion was up 7%, driven by continued investment in
advisers and technology as well as higher external fees on revenue growth. For the quarter, we saw net long-term
inflows of $8 billion, with positive flows across all asset classes. In addition, we saw net liquidity inflows of $14
billion.
AUM of $2.1 trillion and overall client assets of $2.9 trillion were both up 7%, with more than half of the increase
being driven by flows and the remainder on higher markets. Deposits were down 8% year-on-year, reflecting
migration into investments with us and down 5% sequentially including seasonality. Finally, we had loan balances
up 12%, with strength in global wholesale and mortgage lending.
Moving to Page 8 and Corporate. Corporate reported a net loss of $145 million. Treasury and CIO net income
was up year-on-year primarily driven by higher rates. Other Corporate was a net loss of $241 million, including
markdowns on certain legacy private equity investments of $220 million pretax. For the whole company, legal
costs were a modest negative, with the benefit here in Other Corporate being more than offset in the CIB.
Moving to Page 9 and outlook. We recently gave you updated outlook. So unsurprisingly, that still holds and it's
here on the page. Only 2 things of note. Our expense outlook assumes that the FDIC surcharge ended this
quarter. So clearly, an extension would pose a risk. And on tax, there are a number of questions in the rules
which we expect to be clarified by the end of the year. We will have to work through them but would not expect
any changes to be material.
So to close, we are growing across most of our businesses. We're investing heavily in all of them. We're investing
in technology, bankers and beyond. Credit is in great shape, and the earnings power of the company is evident.
We are particularly proud of the strength and improvement in customer satisfaction broadly and our continued
investments, which drive leadership positions and market share gains.
This quarter, we announced Sapphire Banking and our digital investing platform, You Invest. We opened our first
branch as part of our expansion strategy in Washington, D.C., announced additional expansion into Philadelphia
and Boston and also announced our advancing cities initiative as we invest for growth in the clients and
communities that we serve. With that, operator, please open up the lines to Q&A.
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR, SENIOR MD & SENIOR RESEARCH ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI INSTITUTIONAL
EQUITIES, RESEARCH DIVISION: So at the Investor Day, I remember asking you the same question. So I
apologize, but you had a slide that talked about Consumer and Corporate balance sheets being in great shape
and having a low debt service burden.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR: The 10 years' up a modest 35 basis points since then and the world's freaking out that
it's the end of the cycle, and that's going to choke off the recovery. Your results are your results, but they're, some
will say, backward-looking. Are you seeing any impact, a, at the modest increase in the curve now? And b, I'll ask
again, is there a level of rates where you would start to see an impact of slowdown in what you're willing to lend,
rising in credit costs, things like that?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would say -- I would sort of pick up on the tone that you had in your question, which
is the level of rates is not surprisingly high. And so from our vantage point, we're not seeing anything in terms of
looking at our client dialogue or, for that matter, at the credit trends that would suggest that this is problematic.
With higher rates, and we do this all the time, we obviously look at all of our portfolios and stress them for shocks
of up 100 basis points, even up 200, although, clearly where we are now, risks are more asymmetric but -- I
mean, more symmetric. But there doesn't seem to be any extraordinary stress that becomes evident even if you -obviously, the margin, you're going to get more, but it doesn't seem to be overwhelming. And it speaks, I think, to
the fact that low rates have been around for a long time. People have had the chance to get prepared. There is a
Page 3 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

lot of liquidity. And in the corporate space, in particular, people have been able to hedge. So is there an absolute
level of rates where things can be problematic? At some point, but we don't think we're anywhere near there. So
I'm not saying that there couldn't be select downgrades. I'm not saying that at the margin, there may not be some
incremental stress if rates continue to go much higher, but that's not where we are right now.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Steve Chubak with Wolfe Research.
STEVEN JOSEPH CHUBAK, DIRECTOR OF EQUITY RESEARCH, WOLFE RESEARCH, LLC: I wanted to start
with a question on the You Invest launch. As we think about the strategy for the business, I'm just -- I want to
understand, is the goal to compete with the incumbents to win new clients? Or are you simply trying to augment
the existing offerings for JPMorgan clients? And it's really just our effort to understand the long-term strategy
given that the pricing is quite competitive but, at the same time, the marketing effort has been fairly minimal so
far.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I mean, remember, You Invest, it's early. Jamie just said, I don't know if you heard it, yes
and yes. Clearly, we are trying to add products and capabilities and value to our existing clients in an effort to
continue to drive loyalty and engagement and also earn more share of their wallet. But we do think that the
proposition is compelling and that the pricing is disruptive, and we should also expect, over time, to be able to
attract new accounts. So yes and yes. But it's early days. We're going to continue to develop You Invest, its
capabilities, iterate it and improve it. So far, it's early but good.
STEVEN JOSEPH CHUBAK: Got it. And just one follow-up for me relating to the commentary on the deposit side.
You spoke of some of the headwinds to deposit growth, and these are more industry trends, including
yield-seeking behavior on both the Commercial and Asset Management side. I know you've given some helpful
guidance in terms of the impact of the Fed QE unwind as well in the past. I'm just wondering, is the yield-seeking
behavior you've seen so far consistent with your expectation? Do you still expect to grow deposits as we look out
for the next couple of years?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so the answer is generically, yes, as we would've expected. Obviously, we have no
crystal ball as to the sort of timing and path of these things, but it is playing out arguably a little slower than we
thought but like we thought. And I would say that our outlook for deposit growth is for it to be slower but still
positive.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK, MD, MORGAN STANLEY, RESEARCH DIVISION: So first question, just on the rate
question that you got earlier. But I wanted to understand how you're thinking about the impact on the outlook for
your asset yields, in particular the securities portfolio. I know you've given guidance on that before. But given that
sharp backup that we got over the last couple of weeks, how's that impacting your forward look on that?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I mean, on the asset side of the balance sheet, just a big rule of thumb is that a little
less than half of our loans are variable, indexed to prime and LIBOR. And so what we've been seeing -- in any
one quarter, there can be noise on onetime items or mix or whatever else. But largely speaking, for every rate
hike we've been seeing on the front end, we're seeing our assets repriced about half of that and that -- or our
loans repriced about half of that, and that's what we'd expect. Similarly, if we see sustained increases in the long
end of the curve, then we would see that play through into our investment securities yield. Obviously, this quarter,
while there was a meaningful increase on a spot basis, on an average basis, that wasn't the case and particularly
not for mortgages. So it had a modest impact on investment security yields this quarter. But again, if it was
sustained and more sizeable, we would see that pass through, yes... and we would rotate the assets into higher
book yields over time.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: Okay. And then my follow-up question has to do with a blockchain that you launched
this quarter. I think it was on September 25, you launched a blockchain for international payments. And I know at
Investor Day, you talked a lot about the investments you were making on that side. Should we be viewing this as
a competitor to SWIFT? Is that how the vision is for this blockchain?
MARIANNE LAKE: So this is the Interbank Information Network which we talked about at Investor Day, and now
we have I think 75 banks and growing signed up to it. I wouldn't necessarily look at it exactly like that. I would say
this use case, at least for now, is very much around reducing the friction in the Wholesale payment space in terms
of inquiry and information sharing and not at this point about processing payments. So we are still exploring use
cases across-the-board on blockchain. I'm very excited about this; and the uptake, it will be, I think meaningful,
but I wouldn't think of it that way. Not yet.
Page 4 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
ERIKA NAJARIAN, MD AND HEAD OF US BANKS EQUITY RESEARCH, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH, RESEARCH
DIVISION: My first question expands on what Glenn had asked. So clearly, the bank stocks have been hit along
with the broad market. And I guess you're telling us one of two things. One, either the economy is slowing down
or the relationship between bank revenue growth and solid economic growth in the U.S. is broken or not
somehow as correlated as expected. And I'm wondering, given your fairly strong results across-the-board, where
is the market wrong in terms of how they're thinking about either the economy or bank revenues related to a
strong economy?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I need to start by saying, I mean, there's a lot of sort of macro uncertainty noise and
overhang that have been affecting the markets over the last few days. So overthinking any one driver or sort of
conclusion I think might be challenging. I would say that as we look at the economy, we don't see it slowing down.
It seems to be continuing to grow pretty solidly. There is divergence around the world. So it's led by U.S. strength
but still expecting there to be more convergence going forward. So I actually think that our outlook is still quite
optimistic on the global economy, not to say, to Jamie's point, that there aren't some risks out there. And so as we
-- and also just to talk about monetary policy for a second. Everything, given that growth outlook, is really sort of
lining up for a December rate hike and for more hikes into 2019 and the continuation, hopefully, of a steeper yield
curve, and that all should be constructive for bank stocks. It is definitely the case that as we've been talking about
for years now, as the Fed is shrinking its balance sheet and liquidity is coming out of the system, yes, we are
seeing deposit growth flow, and there's a natural feedback loop; as you reprice liabilities, you'll have a natural
asset-based response. And so you might have slower growth on the asset side relative to the past, but it should
be at higher spreads and that should be how it plays out. So there's really no change, I don't think, in our
expectation of the drivers.
ERIKA NAJARIAN: That's helpful. And just as a follow-up, I picked up in part of your response to an earlier
question, Marianne, as we think about your Wholesale loan trends year-over-year, which continue to outpace the
banking industry, could you tell us a little bit more about the dynamics in terms of competition from nonbanks,
particularly in private middle-market lending? And I guess, we're really wondering what you're observing in terms
of competition more on structure rather than rate and whether or not some of the liquidity that you noted could be
drained out of the system would change those competitive dynamics near term. And sort of what is JPMorgan's
indirect exposure that remains on balance sheet on the sponsor-backed transactions? Sorry, I know that was a
lot.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I'll try and remember all of that. First of all, I would just clarify that when you say
Wholesale loan growth has been outpacing the industry, I would say that, from my recollection, over the course of
the last several quarters, we've basically been saying in line with, if not maybe even slightly less than in line with
the industry. But it is nuanced. You need to get beneath it. There are areas where we would fully expect to be
growing more strongly than the industry, and those are in our newer expansion markets where we've been
investing; we're reaping the benefits of those investments and we're growing from a smaller base and deepening
into the market. In our core markets, the mature markets, in line to maybe not even quite as we are being
cautious given where we are in the cycle. So I just want to clarify that...
JAMES DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: We haven't changed our standards.
MARIANNE LAKE: We haven't materially changed our underwriting standards, no. And if anything, I would say
we're just being cautious at the margin. And with respect to competition outside of banks, it's definitely true that
nonbanks are gaining share and it's also true that they are, structure-wise, going to be willing to do and are willing
to do things that we are not. And so for our best clients, we aren't largely going to lose on price. We would be
willing to work on price, but we would walk away on structure.
JAMES DIMON: And we don't have a lot of residual exposure to sponsors who are doing that kind of lending.
MARIANNE LAKE: No. That's right.
JAMES DIMON: Right.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mike Mayo with Wells Fargo Securities.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO, MD, HEAD OF U.S. LARGE-CAP BANK RESEARCH & SENIOR ANALYST,
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC, RESEARCH DIVISION: Can you hear me?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
Page 5 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: So Marianne, look, I mean ROTCE of 17%, you seem to have some deposit
market share gains. But year-over-year for the third quarter, expenses were up more than revenues. So can you
highlight the dollar amount of investment spending and how that's changed and where you are in that
progression?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. Actually, just before we get into expense for a second, if you step back, just a couple of
things. I wouldn't look at any one quarter when I'm thinking about like operating leverage. Not to overplay
seasonality or anything else, but I would look at the whole year. And tax reform is an important part of that. So if
you look at year-to-date on a reported basis rather than a managed basis, year-over-year, year-to-date, we have
about 200 basis points of positive leverage. So tax reform is a big factor. And then, obviously, we had some
private equity losses, which are episodic in this quarter's revenue print. So I think that there's strong growth
across the businesses. The expense number in investments, our expenses are up over $1 billion year-on-year, in
line -- outside of FDIC and revenue-related costs, in line with the guidance we gave at Investor Day. So think
about that sort of $2.7 billion of year-over-year investment, and we're working through it. So we're on track. It's
different from revenues insofar as it's more linear and so expenses are in line and leverage is -- positive leverage
is, I think, pretty strong.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: All right. And just one separate question for you, Jamie. Your CEO letter
highlights the expectation that interest rates would go a lot higher. So I guess, we're along the track that you laid
out, but it doesn't seem like the market's digesting it as -- maybe as well as you might have thought the market
would digest. So it's basically what you expected, so what's different between your expectations and how the
recent market's been reacting?
JAMES DIMON: Well, I think I noted that the market may not take it that well if rates go up and -- because it'll
surprise people. But people shouldn't be surprised. And of course, so many things have changed since we've
been through this before, like monetary policy, liquidity ratios, capital ratios, et cetera. So I was also pointing out
that -- just about the probability that rates can go higher. People should be prepared for that. They should not be
surprised about it. So I'm always surprised when people are surprised. And the why is more important. Are you
still growing? The economy is strong. Rates are going up. Most of us consider it a healthy normalization and
going back to a -- more of a free market when it comes to asset pricing and interest rates, et cetera. And we need
that. So to me, overall, it's a good thing, particularly because the economy's strong. And so I do expect rates will
continue to go up.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: And we don't bet the company on that. That's just my own expectation. I have a -- I would put
much higher odds on it being at 4% than most other people. But again, the economy is strong. So as long as it's a
normalized strong economy, it's a good thing. And the economy could be strong for a while. I mean, Marianne
pointed out, wage is going up, participation is going up, credit has been written as pristine. Housing is in short
supply. Confidence, both small business, consumers, is extraordinarily high, and that could drive a lot of growth
for a while, in spite of some of the headwinds out there.
MARIANNE LAKE: I also think -- I mean, not exactly, but if you went back and looked, a couple of years ago, at
what the 2-year forward 10-year rate would look like, it would look much like this, and so it's just that it's been -because the covers having a hard time pushing up that people are now focused on it, but this is what we would've
expected, should expect and higher.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL, RESEARCH ANALYST, THE BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP
INCORPORATED: Maybe just a quick question on deposits. We're starting to see some slowing of growth, if not
outflows in some areas as rates rise. How do you -- but you guys still have a loan-to-deposit ratio that's in sort of
the mid-60s, and you've been gaining share on the retail side. What's your sense of, I guess, competition for
deposit and pricing, particularly in the core retail bank?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so when we think about the sort of... well, so it's not really about competition, particularly.
When we think about the deposit base and the retail consumer relationship, deposit and rate pace is an important
part of it but it's increasingly less important, not that it's not significant. And so when you think about the value that
we give to our customers, it's not just that, but it's also all of the customer experience initiatives that we've had.
It's about convenience. It's about digital, mobile capabilities. It's about launching new products, new services,
simplifying the environment for them. So there's a lot of different investments and things to play, which might
make this kind of normalization cycle look a little different. And so the way we think about it is, we look carefully
across the spectrum of deposits, Retail and Wholesale, at what we are seeing in terms of flows and balances and
Page 6 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

elasticity for our customers on our balance sheet. And that's how we think about our strategy for deposit reprice,
and it's sort of largely behaving as we would have expected.
JAMES DIMON: I'll just make a macro point, too. As the Fed reduces balance sheets, just say by $1 trillion over
the next 18 months or whatever, which is what they've indicated they're going to do, that's a $1 trillion out of
deposits. That will have an effect, kind of macro competition and stuff like that, and we try to estimate the big
points that come out of Wholesale, that come out of Retail, it's kind of hard to know. So -- but that will change the
competition a little bit for depositors.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL: Okay, fair enough. And maybe a follow-up on that investment spend. Do you -- I
mean, obviously, it went up with the tax cut helping to accelerate some investments. Do we think of it going
forward, stabilizing at these high levels? Or is this sort of a one-off sort of increase and we might see that come
down? Or do we keep increasing? How do we think about the investment spend needs going forward a little
further out?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so I would say -- first of all, obviously, we'll give you more thoughts on forward-looking
guidance at a future date. But just generically, I wouldn't really put tax reform as being a primary reason for what
we're doing on investments. I would say that we have identified the opportunity to accelerate capabilities that are
consistent with our client's strategic long-term goals, and so we've been leaning into that this year. And so it was
a pretty sizable step-up this year. Acknowledging that, we wouldn't necessarily expect to see that continue. But
we're going to carry on investing in technology, adding bankers, opening branches, launching new products so
that we're sort of defending the long-term growth and profitability of the company. And in the absence of giving
you guidance, I would just point you to the fact that we're still targeting -- not targeting, but we're still expecting an
overhead ratio to be around about the mid-50s over the medium term which, on revenue growth, implies we'll
continue to invest. And there's also volume-related costs associated with that.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John McDonald with Bernstein.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD, SENIOR ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO., LLC., RESEARCH
DIVISION: Marianne, I was wondering on the regulatory front, do you have any visibility yet into the future
interaction of CCAR process with the new loan-loss accounting rules, CECL, particularly in the context of the
stress capital buffer potentially being implemented? Because it seems like we could have some overlapping
procyclicality and then the potential to freeze that into the run rate capital. So I'm just kind of wondering is there
any visibility yet on that? Is that a big area of uncertainty for you?
MARIANNE LAKE: Right. So you hit the nail on the head with both your question and your -- what that could
imply. It is a big area of uncertainty. We do not have clarity on capital broadly as it relates to CECL, including
whether there will be permanent capital relief and/or how that will play into CCAR. It is one of the most open thing
-- open questions we have. So right now, what we know is, as far as I know anyway, that we don't have to put the
CCAR impact in until -- sorry, the CECL impact in until CCAR 2020. So it's not a sort of imminent question, but it's
an important one, and we don't know the answer.
JAMES DIMON: It seems to me that every single time there's a chance to make things more procyclical or less,
we make it more procyclical.
MARIANNE LAKE: That's the danger for sure. So we would encourage the dialogue on clarifying capital
treatments [writ] large to be at the forefront of standard-setters' minds and regulators...
JAMES DIMON: Exactly. But this also won't change our strategy. That's just accounting.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD: Got it. And then just as a follow-up, I was wondering how rising rates are affecting
competition and capacity in the Mortgage business and whether the regulations in mortgage have made you open
to reconsidering getting back into some areas that you exited after the crisis.
MARIANNE LAKE: Well, yes. So Mortgage being a cyclical business as it is, we are on higher rates expecting the
overall market to be down about 10% year-on-year. We are down -- in line maybe a little more than that, but for
us it's a tale of two channels. We are flat year-on-year in the Consumer channels, so a decent consumer
engagement and purchase market share. And we're down meaningfully in Correspondent because we are pricing
for the risk in higher rates. With respect to would we be willing to reconsider our position on mortgage, the
narrative, the dialogue is constructive but there hasn't actually been any resolution to the bigger challenges. So if
we can get that resolution, then that I think the answer would be largely, yes. Jamie?
JAMES DIMON: No -- I would just say, Mortgage -- the Mortgage company is earning money. It's doing quite well.
Page 7 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: Delinquencies are way down. We're competitive. We started Chase -- what was it called? Chase
My Home so you can digitally track your mortgage process, and there's a lot of good stuff coming. And so -- and
the big picture is pretty good. Obviously, refis and new home sales will probably be down because of the rates a
little bit.
MARIANNE LAKE: Right. And you're right, there's excess capacity in the market right now, and that will clear -- it
will clear itself out over the course of the coming months. And we're in this for relationships, not volumes. And
margins are under pressure as a result, but they will stabilize.
JAMES DIMON: And that is an area, by the way, where all the riskier lending has gone to the nonbanks pretty
much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Al Alevizakos with HSBC.
ALEVIZOS ALEVIZAKOS, ANALYST, HSBC, RESEARCH DIVISION: I would like to ask a question on the CIB.
Especially, I would like to focus more about the outlook that you gave that the spreads are getting tighter. And I
would like to know regarding the credit and securitization business where we've seen issuance being quite slow
during the summer, then continuing like that in September. Do you see that there is a risk-off mode in the market?
And how would you believe that the revenues would actually move going in Q4 and then in the new year? Do you
think that generally fixed income wallet would actually be going down?
MARIANNE LAKE: A risk of what, sorry?
ALEVIZOS ALEVIZAKOS: The what, sorry?
MARIANNE LAKE: No. Yes -- no, no. Okay, so...
JAMES DIMON: The risk of wallet would go down.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would say on the margin point, it's been the case that for -- particularly in the sort of
more liquid space, you've seen margins coming down consistently over the years. And we've -- it's not necessarily
that this is some sort of step change or a new phenomenon, but it's competitive, and so that's what we're seeing.
On the SPG side, pipelines aren't strong at this point so we expect fourth quarter to feel much like the third.
JAMES DIMON: Maybe just to make a long-term point here, too. In the next 20 years or so, the total fixed income
markets around the world are going to double. And that is just important to keep in the back of your mind. So
when you run the business, you're running the business to capture your share of that doubling. But of course,
margins over time will come down and the way you do it will, it being transformed by electronics, et cetera, but it's
a pretty good future outlook.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN, MD AND SENIOR EQUITY RESEARCH ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC,
RESEARCH DIVISION: Marianne, on the Consumer credit side, I should say, you made the point about card
losses remaining low, and towards the low end of what you had thought for the year. But I also noticed that you
also added to the Card reserve and noted higher losses. So can you just give us the to and fro about just what
you're seeing in the underlying on Card and losses and trajectories?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. Sure, okay. So as you know, we've been talking for a couple of years now about the fact
that we did some targeted credit expansion in the Card space a few years back. And naturally, as that seasons, it
will -- and our risk-adjusted returns are healthy, but underwriting loans at higher loss rates, which means as that
seasons, that the overall portfolio loss rate will naturally increase. So the higher the percentage of newer vintages
are, the higher the loss rate will be in accordance with our underwriting standards and at good risk-adjusted
returns. So that's something we've been tracking and guiding to and expecting. The build this quarter was more
about loan growth than it was about the seasoning of the charge-off rate, but it was a bit of both. My comment
about the performance, though, is if we had looked at the 2018 Card loss rate, as we did at the beginning of the
year, we said we would have expected it to be closer to 3.25%. But there are 3 things driving it to be slightly
better. The first is the pre-expansion vintages are holding up very well. So the sort of pre-2015 vintages continue
to hold up very well. The second is that as we have continued to observe the newer vintages, we've been rigorous
in terms of, at the margin, doing risk pullbacks and ensuring we're managing the performance really well. And the
third is that we've been improving our collection strategy. So a combination of factors have allowed us to deliver
Page 8 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

apples to apples a charge-off rate for the portfolio that's a little better than we would've expected coming into the
year.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: Yes, great color. Can I...
JAMES DIMON: [Good to see the] development through-the-cycle number.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: So you should explain that to him, too.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. And obviously, in this portfolio, as we go through the cycle, we would expect charge-off
rates to continue to rise, and that's one of the reasons why I emphasize that the pre-expansion vintages continue
to be that kind of -- you'll remember, we hit that 2.5% charge-off rate, which is extraordinarily low for this kind of
portfolio. And we're still there for those pre-expansion vintages. So naturally, as the cycle matures, we will see
that rise. But we aren't seeing it yet.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: Yes, makes sense. And can I ask you just on the other side, can you talk a little bit
of Auto in the same context, too, where the losses have been flat as a pancake? Can you talk about that and also
just that leasing side of the book, which we more see in the other income? Are you still seeing the same potential
for growth in both the on balance sheet and the leases?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So on the loan side in Auto, I would say that we have -- we are losing share as we see
competition from credit unions and captives that may have economic frameworks that are different from ours. We
are not going to chase volume. We're going to get the appropriate return for the risk. So we are -- our credit
reflects our discipline on pricing and underwriting standards. And so it is continuing to be flat to a little better. On
the leasing side, we do leasing with our manufacturing partners. We are seeing very strong growth. We're very
careful about how we think about residual risks and reserving on that portfolio, but it's very high-quality growth.
And that looks set to continue.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Saul Martinez with UBS.
SAUL MARTINEZ, MD & ANALYST, UBS INVESTMENT BANK, RESEARCH DIVISION: Just wanted to follow up
on the question on operating leverage. And how should we think about the outlook for positive operating leverage,
maybe just more philosophically? Because your efficiency ratio is currently not materially above the 55%
through-the-cycle expectation. So I mean, should we be thinking of positive operating leverage as part of the
investment narrative? Or is the goal really to invest in favorable business outcomes, so operating leverage does
what it does and really doesn't drive business decision?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, more the latter than the former. So obviously, we have a view of what we think the right
return profile for these businesses should look like and we're investing to deliver those returns through the cycle
and over the long term. So we don't have an operating leverage target in mind when we set our investment
strategy, nor do we, for that matter, have an expense target in mind either. So again, we saw a reasonable
step-up year-on-year this year because we saw the opportunity to do that well. I wouldn't necessarily expect to
see that kind of growth. But again, operating leverage is more of an outcome, not entirely, but more of an
outcome than an input.
JAMES DIMON: And mix.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, and mix.
SAUL MARTINEZ: Got it, okay. Fair enough. And if I could just ask a quick follow-up on CECL. I know you don't
manage the accounting outcomes and I think, Marianne, you mentioned a number of areas last quarter where
CECL could have an impact. But any update just on CECL preparations and when you think you might have an
estimate of what the effects could be?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So yes, I appreciate that you guys have been asking about this now for a while, and I
hate to tell you that the modeling, the data, the methodologies are complicated. So operationally, we are working
through that across all of our businesses. We continue to expect to be running in parallel through some parts of
2019 across some of our portfolio so that we can make sure that we fully understand the potential implications.
We don't have a number for you, but I will tell you this. Same as I said I think last time, the biggest driver is likely
to be Card because of the size of the portfolio and the 12 months incurred a loss model today. So the weighted
average life of the portfolio driven by revolvers would be longer than that, most likely. There'll be some other
impacts, pluses and minuses. Research reports have been written. They've -- I think, on average, for those that
Page 9 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

have been written, have suggested not just for us but across others that the reserve increase could be 20% to
30%. And while I don't have a number for you, it's not implausible.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR, MD, DEUTSCHE BANK AG, RESEARCH DIVISION: I wanted to follow up on the
discussion about increased competition in FICC. And I guess the language in the release kind of implied there
was some increase in competition. Your comments on the call here has been competitive for some time. And I
guess I was trying to square the two. And I would just add, coming into this year, you had the #1 FICC share and
incredibly, you've been the biggest FICC share gainer I think year-to-date when we look on a global basis. So
you've been building on top of that share, and I'm just trying to gauge if there's been kind of a change among
competition trying to get some of that share back and maybe if that just started to accelerate.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I think if you go back a number, number of years when we were all having those like
deep and meaningful debates about whether we should be changing our sort of FICC operating model and we
were committed to the sort of full spectrum, complete platform, you roll forward to 2016, there was
outperformance in fixed income and coming in -- and people had made changes to their operating model and
operations and the competition came back pretty fiercely, I would say, into 2017. And then in 2017, the market
didn't play nicely, particularly the volatility and volumes were less robust than they had been in 2016. But we
haven't seen the competition let up. So people are back and wanting to enjoy -- Jamie just talked about it, the
fixed income wallet will double, and there are -- pretty much everyone, everywhere wants to enjoy some of that.
And so the competition -- it's a combination of it's been a very competitive for a while, and it continues to be so.
So I don't think it's a step change, but it does, obviously, feel -- particularly when volatility has been reasonably
contained outside of specific emerging market kind of areas -- that everybody is competing for these thin margins.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR: And then just broadly speaking, I mean, if we look at both FICC and equity trading,
obviously, you've had the leadership position in FICC. You've been gaining a lot of share in equity including this
year. And what do you think the biggest driver of that is? Like it doesn't feel like it's the capital or liquidity
advantage? Is it all the technology spend that you've been doing? What are a couple reasons you would just
chalk it up to high level?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so I mean, if you think about the -- we're sort of gaining share most notably in cash and
prime. And if you go back a number of years ago, we were pretty open and honest about the fact that we weren't
where we needed to be in either of those 2 scenarios, and we have been consistently investing in the platform.
And it is technology, think about prime with -- building out of the prime platform, particularly internationally, has
been a game changer. And we had a best-in-class competitive offering over the course of the last couple of
years. And now we're getting the momentum of being able to deliver that to clients. And similarly, we've been
investing in the cash side. So it's across the complex, but we're getting the benefits of the investments we've been
making. I also think that the sort of relationship effect of having our equities business with our private bank and
with the Commercial Bank, the sort of feedback loop is also quite powerful. So it has a little bit to do with our
operating model, our platform as a company.
JAMES DIMON: And really great research.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, great research.
OPERATOR: The next question comes from Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW.
BRIAN MATTHEW KLEINHANZL, DIRECTOR, KEEFE, BRUYETTE, & WOODS, INC., RESEARCH DIVISION:
Yes. I had a quick follow-up question on the Securities Services. You mentioned that there was a decline
sequentially based on seasonality in the exited business. But is there any way to size that to kind of get to what
the underlying growth trends were in that segment?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I mean, so from an underlying growth trend perspective, I would look year-over-year
rather than sequentially. I sort of pointed out a sequential point because of seasonality, we also exited U.S.
broker-dealer business. So that, obviously, has an impact. It is also the case -- so if you think about the
year-on-year growth of 5%, we had been growing more than that, led by very strong growth in NII. For this
business, this is a Wholesale business where deposit betas are high, so we would expect that growth to level off.
And in this quarter in particular, just the specifics of our internal transfer pricing, is that LIBOR OAS narrows and it
does have an impact. Year-over-year, continue to expect us to grow asset, asset-based fees, NII solidly but not
as strongly and transaction. So I don't know whether it's going to be high single digits or mid-single digits growth
year-on-year.
Page 10 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

BRIAN MATTHEW KLEINHANZL: Okay. And then just one separate question on the noninterest-bearing
deposits. I mean, it came down. Linked quarter, was that mostly just on the corporate side? Or was there also
some pickup in the deposit gammas on the retail side as well?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, not on the retail side, not yet. I mean, there's not a sufficiently compelling rate differential
to be driving interproduct migration on the retail side yet, but we are seeing it on the Wholesale side.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
GERARD S. CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC, RESEARCH DIVISION: I apologize if you've
already addressed this, but can you give us the outlook for the pipeline for commercial loan growth or commercial
loans and Investment Banking? And I know it's very early in the quarter, but with the trading volatility we've seen,
any color that you can share with us on that as well?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So commercial loans, we're 4% up year-on-year, flat to 1% up sequentially. At this
point, as we look forward over the near term, it feels like that kind of steady growth, GDP-plus, GDP, is what we're
going to get. And remember, we're -- everybody has a different mix, but one of the things that happen quickly with
tax reform is that the sort of government health care hospital not-for-profit space was less compelling from a loan
sense than our -- they'll be more compelling in the capital markets. So we're seeing that impact our growth down.
So I would say that kind of not quite mid-single-digit growth feels like a decent outlook, all other things being
equal. In terms of the capital markets, well, I would say that the third quarter pipelines coming out into fourth
quarter and momentum sets us up for a decent fourth quarter, honestly, across products. Clearly, volatility,
depending upon how long it stays around and what the drivers are, can impact business confidence. We're not
necessarily expecting that. So I would still say the outlook across products is good, with ECM obviously being the
one that would be most likely impacted. But even there, I think it might be more of a sort of temporary set of
pauses as people see how everything is digested. And honestly on Markets, no good ever comes of trying to
predict what a quarter will look like after a couple of weeks. And volatility is not necessarily a bad thing. It can be
constructive for some -- in some ways and less in others. So -- yes, there's no good coming of a prediction at this
point. I will say one thing about Markets, just to give you guys a tiny view, which I know you know. But just
because of tax reform and another one-off item in the fourth quarter, flat year-on-year, flat year-on-year
comparably would be up.
GERARD S. CASSIDY: Very good. I appreciate that. The second question is when we look at the weekly H.8
data on Fridays, the smaller banks in this country are growing their loan books much faster than the larger banks.
You, obviously, had good loan growth this quarter, but it doesn't match up to what the smaller banks are
producing. So the question is, what impact do you think the CCAR process has had on you when you compare
your underwriting prefinancial crisis? I know you're not changing your underwriting standards. But do you think the
larger banks are more conservative as a general statement? And it's reflected in these very strong credit quality
numbers you and your peers are posting today.
MARIANNE LAKE: I mean, so it's difficult to generalize. And obviously, everybody has a sort of different risk
appetite. It might be fine if you're getting properly paid to grow more quickly. We are sticking with our guns in
terms of our underwriting and risk appetite on credit. The other thing I think you have to bear in mind, and again, it
depends on the particular situation of any competitor, is that we are materially and increasingly bound by
standardized risk-weighted assets. And so while we don't overthink that, and we do honestly think about
economic capital, at some level, we have to generate a positive return for shareholders and shareholder value.
And it's -- on these very high credit quality loans that we're producing, it's expensive.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
MARLIN LACEY MOSBY, DIRECTOR OF BANKING & EQUITY STRATEGIES, VINING SPARKS IBG, LP,
RESEARCH DIVISION: I wanted to take a little bit different slant on deposit betas, and just kind of ask a 3-part
question. One, is the increase in deposit betas that we've seen over the last couple of Fed moves surprising at all
or abnormal, in your opinion, to normal historical trends?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So I would say, if you look at the first 4 hikes, it was relatively muted deposit reprice
across the complex. It accelerated for the last 3 hikes. I'm excluding September given, obviously, when it
happened. So we are seeing an acceleration in betas. And it started at the top end of Wholesale and it will
migrate through the complex over time. I would say, it's in line to arguably better than we would have modeled.
But remember that this cycle did start at a very different place. So while if we looked at history, we might have
seen reprice in totality having been higher at this point, we started at 100 basis points of rates, not 25. So I think
that, that plays into it too. So generally, in line with expectations is what I would say.
Page 11 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MARLIN LACEY MOSBY: Okay. That's what I would say. So let's go to the next questions. Given that rates have
been low for so long, going up until we started increasing rates, we've repriced almost every security and loan we
had on the books. So the actual upward potential to reprice portfolio yields to current market rates has got to be
larger than what we would typically have seen historically. Do you agree or disagree with that idea?
MARIANNE LAKE: I would say, yes. Obviously, it depends on how you position the company over that period. But
we talked about it before. We were and have consistently been relatively short the market. We've been keeping
dry powder so we could invest as the long end of rates goes up, and we still are looking at that. Obviously, there's
complexity in the portfolio too, so paying attention to that. Yes, I agree.
MARLIN LACEY MOSBY: Yes. So the stretch between just portfolio yields -- so asset yields can actually reprice
faster than what we've seen historically. So the combination of those 2 things, in our estimation, gives us a
threshold. So if we solve backwards for deposit betas, it gives us a threshold if we estimate for JPMorgan of
somewhere between 80% to 90% deposit betas, before you actually kind of break through and start eroding net
interest margin. Currently, you had about a 40% deposit beta this quarter. So you have a lot of headroom still to
go before margins start to really erode given deposit pricing. So I just wanted to kind of get a feel for that estimate
of 80% to 90%, given where you're at today.
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So obviously, I don't know exactly your sort of mental model, but let me tell you this. I
think you're right. I don't know about the 80% to 90% specifically, but you're right about net interest margin if you
look through any short-term noise. So we would expect the trend for our firm-wide and core NIM to be -- to trend
or grind higher over time but it does depend on the path and pace of reprice. So if we continue to see deposit
betas stay low or lower than potentially a linear kind of move, you'll see margins increase. And then as they
accelerate back to target, you might even see it compress. But if you see through that, over the long run, yes, net
interest margins will be higher, and that will be driven mainly by balance sheet growth, mix and long end of rates.
At Investor Day, you might remember we told you that beyond 2018, net-net, there was little rate left to go and it
was going to be more about balance sheet mix and growth and long end of rates a little compounding. But the
path does matter. So you can see core NIM, in particular, will be very, very vulnerable to the price -- to the pace
of reprice. [Why would you look through that?]
OPERATOR: There are no additional questions at this time.
MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you, everyone.
JAMES DIMON: Thank you.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020181013eeac000dx

Page 12 of 12 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

