Q3 2008 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
12,583 words
15 October 2008
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
FNDW
English
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase third quarter 2008
earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current
beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's Management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase's actual results to differ materially from those described in the
forward-looking statements can be found in JPMorgan Chase's current report on Form 8-K, dated September 26,
2008, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2008 and March 31st, 2008, and its
annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2007, each of which has been filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on JPMorgan Chase's website, www.jpmchase.com, and
on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website. JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update
forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the
forward-looking statements. Today's presentation may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures
and you should refer to the information contained in the written slides accompanying this presentation for
information about their calculation. These slides are available on JPMorgan Chase's website. (OPERATOR
INSTRUCTIONS) Your line will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live to the presentation. Will
you hear silence for a moment. Please stand by. At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan
Chase's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Michael Cavanagh. Mr.
Cavanagh, please go ahead.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good morning, everybody.
Thanks for joining Jamie and I. Start with a long preamble there. So we are going to go through, as usual, a slide
presentation that is available on our website as the operator just described. So if you have it that in front of you I
hope, let me first, like I did last quarter with Bear Stearns, just describe up front the impact in the quarter of the
Washington Mutual transaction that closed during the quarter, to clear that up before we start talking about what
went on in the JPMorgan businesses for the full quarter. The first point I'd make on page 1 is the italicized
comment up top that the numbers -- it's only been less than three weeks since we announced and closed the
Washington Mutual transaction -- so take the numbers that I'll talk about here on this page related to Washington
Mutual as our best estimates at this stage and do expect us to be working on future refinements if and as needed.
But with that, if you go into the table you see that we reported firm-wide net income including Washington Mutual
impact of $527 million or $0.11 per share. Then you see the WaMu-related merger items, which you are going to
see in our Corporate segment for the quarter. A conforming loan loss reserve adjustment of $1.221 billion, a little
higher than what we said on the WaMu call a couple weeks back. And then an extraordinary gain of $581 million,
which is actually zero at the time of the call. Those two together are at about $0.18 negative. To bring you down
to result before WaMu of $1.167 billion, or about $0.28 per share.
Moving now to some of the bullets at the bottom, just to give you a sense for what's coming in the future,
merger-related items ongoing from this point forward, so in the fourth quarter and beyond, will again be booked in
Corporate the same way you are going to see what happened with the non-operating results of Bear Stearns.
That's going to include whatever merger costs there are that flow in the future. We are giving you an estimate that
that could be after tax about $100 million plus or minus in the fourth quarter and cumulatively as much as $500
million plus or minus over the next several years. In addition, the refinements that I talked about to the purchase
accounting, to the extent that they occur, are going to run through P&L, and that's related to the fact that there's a
negative goodwill situation and for the accounting aficionados, you can follow up after the call on what all that
Page 1 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

means. But any refinements will run through P&L, but we will count them in this merger related items line that
we'll show you and talk about in the Corporate segment. Lastly, beginning next quarter, we'll obviously show the
ongoing operating results as appropriate in our relevant business segments, Retail, Card Services and
Commercial Banking. And we'll be spending time to improve and refine the reporting methodology we have to
capture all the details we want to give you. Just a high-level comment on the earnings impact, we still feel
comfortable that about a $0.50 incremental EPS for 2009 is a reasonable expectation. And as far as the fourth
quarter goes, you can pretty much expect our best guess would be a pro rata portion of that $0.10, $0.12 of EPS
in the fourth quarter or so related to WaMu.
Moving along to slide two, I won't comment on the first several items on the page here because we are going to
hit them in the businesses, but just some firm-wide items down toward the middle of the page. You see the overall
results include -- and now this is JPMorgan Chase away from Washington Mutual, after-tax items that include a
slightly larger benefit from reduction of deferred tax liabilities and what I talked about on the WaMu call a couple
weeks ago. It's $927 million after-tax. It's spread across our business units, the bulk of it in the Investment Bank.
And then the next two items, auction rate and Fannie and Freddie write-downs, you're going to see in our
Corporate segment. On credit reserves, firm-wide, we increased credit reserves through the P&L by $1.3 billion in
the quarter, bringing the total to $15.3 billion of loan loss allowance and that's strong coverage ratios that you'll
see here. I will show you a final slide that gives that you that across the full firm. And that's before Washington
Mutual again. As you know, in addition, we brought over and then added to the reserves Washington Mutual had
for its non-marked portfolios to the tune of $4.5 billion added to the $15.3 billion that we had. Lastly, we maintain
very strong Tier 1 capital, $112 billion or 8.9% Tier 1 ratio on the back of the successful capital raise of $11.5
billion of common equity that we did a couple weeks ago.
I am going to skip now slide three and go right to getting into the results for Investment Bank on slide four. So
here you see the Investment Bank had $882 million of net income on pretax income of $16 million. So that's really
the flow-through of the deferred tax liability benefit that I talked about on the prior page, largely going to the
investment bank. If you now work down the P&L for the business, $4 billion of overall revenues, pieces of that
included $1.6 billion of Investment Banking fee revenues up 20% year-over-year. And you will see on the next
slide that we continue to be leading market share across the league tables as well as the top, this $1.6 billion for
the year-to-date equivalent is actually the top fee earner on the street. So feel very good about the Investment
Banking key franchise. Moving along to Fixed Income markets, you see we had on the revenue side total of $815
million of revenues. That includes $2.6 billion of write-downs related to our mortgage positions that we've been
talking about before, as well as a $1 billion related to leverage lending, and I will show a slide on each of those.
Won't go into that in more detail right now. And then underlying that in Fixed Income, it was very strong results in
a bunch of other areas. Record results in rates and currencies, credit trading very strong emerging markets and
commodities. On the Equity Market side, you see $1.650 billion of revenues, up strongly year-over-year, and
that's on strong client revenue and on the trading side.
And then lastly you see Credit Portfolio down a lot from a year ago. That's really related to derivative receivables,
the widening of our counter-party credit spreads obviously driving the values lower there and the negative
revenues, which in large part, offset the benefit that you see in the bullet in Fixed Income Markets and equity
markets related to the benefit we get on our own credit spread widening. On the credit cost line you see $234
million of credit costs. Actually the preponderance of that is additions to loan loss allowance. Only $13 million of
actual charge-offs in the quarter. That brings the allowance for loan losses in the Investment Bank to $2.7 billion
for the 3.85% reserves to loans ratio. And then the last point I will make here is you see at the bottom the end of
period equity, $33 billion. I will comment on the back of how we arrived that it, but we really spent time in the
quarter looking to refine our capital allocation methodologies to our businesses, and you can think of this as a
common equity equivalent to the Investment Bank.
Moving along to slide five, I'm going to skip it, but you won't go through it here but you can see for yourself the
strong rankings we have in the league tables and the fee side. So moving to slide six, I will just quickly comment
on the legacy leverage lending positions. So you see we had net markdowns, as I said of, $1 billion for the
quarter. That brings our gross markdowns to $3.8 billion on the remaining $12.9 billion of commitments that we
have, or a 29% markdown to a carrying value on the balance sheet of $9.1 billion. And that is a reduction of $3.4
billion or 21% from last quarter. Moving on to slide seven, you see on the mortgage-related side, same numbers
we have been showing you in prior periods. I will start on the table. If you go to the left, you see the bottom line of
the table, $33 billion of mortgage exposure across the products shown here, both residential and commercial,
reduced by $14.4 billion to end this past quarter at $18.6 billion for the investment bank. If you look at the first
bullet below the table, that reduction in two parts, $2.6 billion of write-downs, as I talked about in the P&L, running
through the P&L, as well as $11.8 billion worth of sales, including $4.3 of which was moved over for -- to our
corporate investment portfolio which is a real buyer of these type of assets.
Page 2 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

I will skip going through the details because you can read them for yourself of what comprises the different
buckets that we have on the page. You see in the next couple bullets. But obviously we feel well marked here.
But when you go down to the final bullet, just to explain how we think about remaining $18.6 billion, we would
think about that in two ways. There's a natural level of inventory that you need to support the ongoing trading and
client activity in normal times. That could be anywhere from $12 billion to $15 billion and so you see $12 billion
right now of that would be assets of that very nature that you would expect to be business as usual and flowing in
and out the door. On top of that, though, we do have $6.6 billion worth of remaining positions from what we have
been through, obviously marked down, and we're just going to manage that on a mark-to-market basis in a
liquidating portfolio in the Investment Bank under Bill and Steve, but leave our trading debt focused on facilitating
client business and put that in the hands of a special team to deal with.
Moving on to Retail now on slide eight, you see again the main drivers as we always go through of what's going
on in the P&L. So you see the growth in the branch stats, checking accounts up 10%, you can read for yourself
the growth in branches and ATMs, et cetera. Average deposits up 2% year-over-year, flattish versus last quarter,
but do feel good about the strength of this franchise. Mortgages obviously originations on the mortgage loan side
down some. Most of what we're originating is conforming to government guarantee standards there and holding
the market share gains that we've had there. Home equity originations down 77% year-over-year. When you
translate that on slide nine into the P&L for the Retail business, we end up with the $4.9 billion worth of revenue in
the Retail business overall which is up 16% year-over-year. It drops down to $247 million of net income, which is
down from the year-ago and prior quarter, and the big reason for that is credit. So you see credit costs circled
there of $1.678 billion. Obviously, charge-offs are higher and you can see the charge-off rate overall down below
at 244 basis points, up from prior year and prior quarter. But also included in that $1.7 billion of credit costs is
$450 million of additions to loan loss reserves, part of the firm-wide $1.3 billion increase. In addition, we added
$250 million of loan loss reserves related to prime mortgages held in corporate. So I am going to show you a
couple of slides in a second on what's going on in the major portfolios.
Lastly, at the bottom of the page, same thing as the Investment Bank. You see the equity allocated to the
business taking into account the WaMu acquisition, increasing from $17 billion to $25 billion in the quarter.
Moving on to slide 11, I'll talk -- 10 rather, I'll talk you through the same slides we've seen before on our major
residential portfolios. So slide 10 is home equity. I'll just take you to the upper right box, the key stats. Focus on
the net charge-off dollar line. So you see $663 million of net charge-offs, up from $511 million last quarter. And I
will just take you right down to our outlook from here on this is that we had talked about last quarter the pace of
deterioration slowing off of what we had given to you earlier in the year. It has slowed but nonetheless it continues
to deteriorate, so our best outlook for the near term is that quarterly losses, that $663 million, could trend as high
as $725 million per quarter to $800 million a quarter over next several quarters or so. When you move on to
subprime, a little more severe degradation, so you see $192 million of net charge-offs last quarter going up to
$273 million. And our outlook again, down at the bottom bullet, could be as high as $375 million to $425 million
over the coming quarters by early '09. And here was the major component of our $450 million reserve increase in
the Retail business that was related to subprime.
On slide 12, prime mortgage, remember, remember I said earlier that we have -- we carry some of the balances
here in our retail business but many in the Corporate segment, in the investment portfolio. Overall, the charge-offs
on this portfolio of $177 million in the quarter or 1.51%, that's going to trend as high as $300 million by early '09.
And just to remind people, we talked about this last quarter, the increase in prime, we've -- just to clarify a bit, this
portfolio we have, mix drives a lot of what's going on here. You see that 80% of our losses in the quarter came
from California and Florida, which represented 37% of the portfolio. The more important, I think, portion of why
the charge-off rates are higher than you might expect is that this is not a well-balanced portfolio by vintage. So of
the $47 billion you see in balances, about 50% are '06-'07 vintages which drive 90% plus of the losses related to
this portfolio. Moving on to card, slide 13, here you see we had profits of $292 million in the quarter, down
substantially from a year ago. Main driver again credit costs, $2.2 billion, up substantially from the prior year.
Charge-off rate of 5%. Pretty much on what we had previously expected up from 4.98% last quarter but essential
flat. In addition, on top of charge-offs we added $250 million to the allowance for loan loss reserves in the quarter.
On the revenue side, we had outstandings grow by 6% from a year ago to about $158 billion and charge volume
growth of 5%. When you translate that into -- it's modest revenue growth, basically flat to the year ago. And lastly,
same point at the bottom, $15 billion of capital. And I will just tell you that's with a view to where the business is
going to go once Card securitization has come on balance sheet and we're under Basel II, so a good number for
capital allocation to the card business. Moving on to Commercial Bank on slide 14, here we had profits of $312
million, up 21% from a year ago, and that's on record revenue, so the $1.125 billion is up 11% from the prior year.
That's on the back of loan growth of 18% from a year ago and deposit or liability balances up 13% from a year
ago. And that revenue growth is really coming across all products in the business. Here credit costs of $126
million. Actually, again, very modest charge-offs. You see the 22-basis-point net charge-off rate in the quarter, so
Page 3 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

all in all, below normalized levels for credit costs, and as we'll comment later, expect this to worsen. It will worsen
from these levels, given the economy, but so far so good for this business.
On slide 15, Treasury Security Services, you see profits of $406 million, up from the year-ago. Again, liability
balances up 10% helping translate revenues up 12% from a year ago, including two segments here, Treasury
Services, the cash management businesses, and Security Services, the custody business. On the Treasury
Services side, the 897 of revenues were a record quarterly revenue level. WSS benefited from the market we're
in, but obviously faces challenges as the market has come off in what we've seen in this month so far. Overall
liability balances you see of $260 billion. Moving on to Asset Management, $351 million worth of net income,
down from a year ago and down from last quarter. Story here again, as I mentioned with Treasury and Security
Services, is market levels impact this, so our assets under management are down by $133 billion solely due to
market declines. On the other side of that over the past 12 months, we've continued to have inflows, $123 billion
for the past year and $46 billion in for the quarter helping offset some of that. Nonetheless it translates into
revenues down 11%, given lower market level effect as well as performance fees.
Finally, moving on the P&L to Corporate, slide 17, I will just walk through the pieces here. Private Equity, we have
been talking about weaker conditions for liquidations and valuations on Private Equity, so we've got it this quarter.
Negative revenues on unrealized losses of $206 million translates into after-tax losses of $164 million. Moving
down a row you see Corporate, $1.64 billion negative. So this is where you see in the bullets to the bottom right,
inside that number, some of the big items are the write-down of the Fannie and Freddie preferred securities that
we owned, $642 million after tax. Also, the $400 million pretax estimated charge related to auction-rate security
settlement, $248 million after tax. And lastly I commented earlier, the prime loans that we hold in Corporate, the
$250 million increase in loan loss allowance as well as actual charge-offs in the quarter, translate into $234
million of after-tax costs all running through that $1.64 billion negative for Corporate. Outlook for there continues
to be $50 to $100 million negative in the quarter, but you are going to have volatility around the investment
portfolio as well as the credit costs related to that prime portfolio. And then the last piece is a $735 million after tax
of merger-related items. This, as I said earlier, is where we are going to continue to show you the impact in future
quarters of Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns related items. So here for the quarter, you see the $1.2 billion
conforming loan loss reserve for WaMu as well as the $600 million extraordinary gain, as well as about $95
million after tax of Bear Stearns merger related costs, kind of in line with what we had expected.
Moving on to capital, so slide 18, you see the firm-wide view of capital obviously came in a bit better than what we
talked about a couple weeks ago on the Washington Mutual call. So you see about five rows down, Tier 1 capital
ratio, this is a Basel I basis, 8.9% for the quarter. Again, that includes taking on the Washington Mutual balance
sheet and the $11.5 billion of common equity we raised and closed in the quarter. And again that's on a Basel I
basis. On a Basel II basis, our best estimate is that there's substantial, maybe 100 basis point spread between
the two to the positive, going to Basel II. And then just the points down at the bottom, the capital allocation and
funding costs. So capital allocation we spent a lot of time in this environment and thinking about what's going on
in our industry, making sure we have capital allocated properly in the businesses, so we have people making
good decisions as our industry obviously faces a lot of different challenges. And what we did in trying to arrive at
that is to take a couple of things into mind. Two of those are that Basel II will be in effect for us January of 2010 or
thereabouts, as well as the off balance sheet accounting rules that bring on, in particular, the credit card off
balance sheet securitization. So we tried to take a forward view of where we're going as we thought about
allocating capital to the businesses. And then the final point is that obviously with credit spreads where they are,
the cost of money, the cost of goods sold in our company period is obviously much, much higher, and we've been
regularly passing through higher cost of money to our businesses so they can again make good economic
decisions for the shareholders on a day-to-day basis.
Moving on to slide 19 now, I will just recap the numbers or let you read them yourselves. These are just refreshes
of the pages we showed you the night of the WaMu announcement. That top table on page 19 just shows you the
$31 billion of tangible assets acquired from WaMu as booked on their books net of our write-downs and purchase
accounting and the consideration we paid gets you to the estimated after-tax gain of $581 million for the quarter
as well as the conforming loan loss reserve adjustments you see at the bottom. I will make the same caveat on
this page, that these are our best estimates as we sit here now and to expect some future refinements to these
numbers if necessary. One last slide on WaMu is page 20. Think of this as a preamble to the disclosure we are
going to be giving you in future quarters, which really goes to the loan balances and the reserves associated with
those, since obviously we took a lot of loans and marked them down. Just want you to understand how it's going
to flow through our numbers. So over to the left you see the first three columns. This is JPMorgan stand-alone
before WaMu. You see our loan balances in the first blue row. If you follow your eye across there, the next
column is loan loss allowance, $14.5 billion related to loan coverage. And that's 2.72% loan loss reserve
coverage.
Page 4 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

When you move to the middle, you see WaMu but first I will point you over to the side. Remember that we took
$78 billion -- rather, $108 billion worth of WaMu loans that are credit impaired, the bad stuff. We wrote that down
by the $30 billion to get to the $78 billion carrying value on our books now related to these loans for a mark-down
of just around 28%. What remains then is in the middle of the page under the green column for Washington
Mutual loan balances, the remainder, the good stuff that wasn't marked down is $131 billion that needs normal
loan loss reserves against it. So including the additional conforming loan accounting entry we booked, we have
$4.5 billion of loan loss reserve related to the Washington Mutual loans that have reserves. And then those two
sets of columns add over to JPMorgan consolidated. So again, there's things moving through these numbers that
we are going to be very clear when we get to our fourth quarter results on how it flows through the numbers.
Washington Mutual integration on page 21, we'll just say that it's progressing well. Important point is that the
deposit base is really stabilizing and growing since September 30th with positive net inflows on seven out of the
past nine days.
And then finally, our outlook, I think I've hit all the comments here. I'll just say one or two things in addition, that
really across retail, really across all the businesses, you see our comment that you can generally be expecting
higher credit costs and the worse economic conditions get, the more likely it is -- or it is likely if economic
conditions worsen, that we'll continue adding to our loan loss reserves in coming quarters. But in Card in
particular, if you see down there on the left side of page 22, you can expect losses of the 5% or so range in the
fourth quarter, which is in line with what we've previously said. But given what we're seeing in the economy, it's
reasonable at this stage to up the expectations for losses in Card for 2009. So we say here that you can expect
something more to the tune of 6% loan losses at the beginning of the year growing to something more like 7% at
the end of the year, but again highly dependent upon the economy. In Asset Management and TSS are subject to
the market conditions, and Corporate, the [net quarterly loss of] $50 to $100 million I already described. In
Washington Mutual, the $0.50 of EPS incremental next year with a pro rata piece of that coming in the fourth
quarter as I said earlier. One other item is Paymentech gains from the dissolution of our merchant services
business with First Data. That will be an after-tax gain, assuming it goes through in early November on schedule,
of $800 million so after tax, but obviously given expectations for loan loss reserving we'll see -- don't expect that
to be dropping to the bottom line is what I'd say. So with that, let me wrap that up and Jamie and I can take some
questions.
JAMIE DIMON, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: So let me just give a couple of overall comments before we
take some questions. Obviously, we necessarily need to be prepared for a bad environment. We don't know what
the environment is going to be. Mike took you through all the credit numbers. If you look at them, other than home
lending, which we think is far worse than we would have expected, we're actually not that bad, non-performers,
delinquencies in Card, et cetera, but when you see this kind of unemployment, this contained of uncertainty, the
reduced consumer spend, we are getting braced for increasing loan loss reserves going forward. So it's
reasonable as a shareholder if you'll expect that trade results can be very tough forward, that charge-offs are
going to be going up, that loan losses will be added at least the next couple quarters. But we're going into an
environment with an extremely strong balance sheet, 8.9% Tier 1 before the government's addition to that, very
strong loan losses or leading among the strongest in the industry, which probably will be strengthened going
forward. And I think of note when you go through this press release, there is real growth. In some areas it's in
market share like investment banking and mortgages, even though it's a tough business, in other areas it's really
broad growth in deposits and loans and you see that in TSS, the Private Bank, and the Commercial Bank, so we
feel pretty good about it. Even in the Card business where we have kind of low expectations for spend, our spend
is up 5%, and from what we know Visa numbers are more like zero. So we seem to be gaining a little bit of share
there too.
I want to point out in the Investment Bank, one of the things -- if you back out losses, which we don't think you
should do, but the trading results were pretty good. But another way to view that is based on what we just went
through in September, and obviously for the whole quarter, but September in particular, you've got to feel pretty
good with the violent swings in volatility that we were able to manage through that process across all of our
products globally and not be highly surprised. That goes from the Lehman bankruptcy to the AIG issues to swings
in certain securities of 25% in a day. And you can imagine what it's like to manage through that process. And I
think for our people here, I think it's very important to note it was an unbelievable thing to watch the people
accomplish the WaMu acquisition, managing the portfolios, a lot of these same people were dealing with clients
on mortgages and issues trying to do the right thing for clients every day. So it makes you really proud to watch
what the people here are able to accomplish and I think it also portends very well what can be accomplished in
the future.
I will also mention on the Treasury package, because I know it's in the back of your minds, we were presented
with a package from the government and this is the way that JPMorgan saw it. The United States Government is
trying to do some very powerful things to fix the situation. And a lot of people can come up with a whole bunch of
Page 5 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

different programs, but they had one, and I think what they're doing in this package, plus all the prior things that
have been done, is very powerful and you will start to see some effect. So we really saw this as doing something
which is very good for the system. It is equally true if you said, well, they're asymmetric benefits for -- it could be a
negative for JPMorgan versus competition. That may very well be true, but we did not think that JPMorgan should
be selfish or parochial and try to stop what's good for the system, because it might be mildly bad for us relative to
some of our competitors. So we hope it will work. There's $25 billion of capital. If it comes in the door, we hope to
find ways to be able to use it to benefit our shareholders and to continue to be there for our clients. I do want to
point out that we are there for our clients. Commercial loans are up 18%. The Investment Banking loans are way
up, and a lot of the things we do every day, we are trying to do the best we can to be in business for our clients,
even in some categories where if you ask the question if you borrow at today's marginal cost and lent out at
today's yields in home equity/auto, you are probably losing money. But we still try to stay in business in the right
way for people who walk into our branches or deal with our bankers. So we will stop there and open the floor to
any questions you all may have.
OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) We request that each participant ask only one question and one
follow-up. We'll pause just a moment to assemble our Q&A. We'll go first to John McDonald with Sanford
Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Was wondering in the equity trading,
could you comment on share gains in prime brokerage and also the contribution of the Bear Stearns business this
quarter versus last quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: We've had some gain in prime broker, and I'm going to say if you look at total balance has been
able to go something like 25% over the quarter. So Bear is performing the way we expect, but I don't remember
the specific numbers of what it did in the equity.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It's definitely an improvement in P&L over the last quarter but not yet -- I would still say
we're tracking towards the incremental profits we expected to get by end of '09. Health in the business, but not a
dramatic change in P&L just yet.
JOHN MCDONALD: So it's not yet a net positive, but should be still towards the $250 million per quarter by the
end of next year?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: A small net positive, but not a big net positive.
JOHN MCDONALD: In the credit card business, the margin was up quarter to quarter. Was wondering if the
prime LIBOR spread was something that started to hurt towards the end of the quarter and you expect that to
impact you more going forward.
JAMIE DIMON: That number alone, if it stays where it is today, could cost us $100 million a month in that
business. We don't expect it to stay there. And obviously there are actions we can take that can reduce that over
time.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: And you are right, it wasn't a significant factor in the third quarter.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And final thing on Card, any changes towards the end of the quarter in payment rates
and behavior as the market fell apart in terms of just revolve and payment rates?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: So spend numbers dropped from a year ago and they're now running on the consumer
side plus 3, 4, 5% a week. I think the industry is closer -- at least we know the Visa number is around 0. Payment
rates came down a little bit, which you expect to see in an environment like this. Obviously losses are kind of
trending upward in a nice steady fashion like we told you toexpect.
JOHN MCDONALD: Jamie, one question on the government's plan with the preferred. Do you expect them to be
restrictive on how banks deploy the capital or pretty much free reign for the banks to use their discretion subject
to -- ?
JAMIE DIMON: It's a non voting preferred, so we don't expect the government to get involved in our business. But
it is clear that the government would like us use the capital to facilitate clients to make loans and stuff like that,
and we want to do that, too, so I think we have a common interest in this.
OPERATOR: We go next to Guy Moszkowski with Merrill Lynch.
Page 6 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. I just wanted to follow up on the use of the
government capital. Would you think it's reasonably leveragable, especially given the availability of the debt
guarantee, or is the government actually, do you think expecting, to you maintain Tier 1 close to 12%?
JAMIE DIMON: Again, I don't think the government is telling us what to do with the capital. When you say
leveragable, I think you can use it. We fully expect to use some of it to do a good job for our shareholders. The
government guarantee on the debt side just makes it easier for banks to roll over their liabilities and some banks
are having trouble doing that. JPMorgan was not.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Right, but presumably given that will you be receiving an injection of $25 billion of Tier 1
capital, if you leveraged it even a few times over, and use the fact that you can borrow at basically Treasury plus
75 bps, given the 75 basis point cost of the guarantee, it would seem like it could actually be an interesting
opportunity or am I looking at it wrong?
JAMIE DIMON: I think if you are a bank that's filling a hole, obviously you can't do that. If you are a bank that is
not filling a hole, obviously you can do some of that. But we just got it. We haven't even got it yet, so we're just
sitting here making sure we do it right. And obviously it will relate to the environment you see going ahead. It's
very important for us, just like I think it's very important for the government, that all of these institutions be able to
weather whatever happens coming forward.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And do you plan to use the TARP asset sale facility to reduce some of those mortgage
exposures that you talked about?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, I don't think it's highly relevant to us, honestly. We're down to smaller numbers now, and so
the answer is probably not, but we'll see how the details come out and figure out then. But I think the TARP
facility, when it comes out, may very well help the market and that will help anyone who wants to trade those
markets, because you will have real prices, real discovery and real ability to how you manage your own assets
and capital.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Fair point. Finally, just to follow up on Bear Stearns, given what you paid for the company
versus the book value that they stated at the time of the merger and the fact that you didn't record an
extraordinary gain there, you would essential be carrying maybe $10 billion of reserves. And you talked about a
variety of things that those were set up for, but largely it would be for securities valuation. And I was just
wondering, have you burned through all those reserves that it point, and would some of the securities losses that
you showed this quarter have been from the Bear Stearns portfolio or do you still have some of those valuation
reserves available?
JAMIE DIMON: I think we've been clear right from the beginning, there were no valuation reserves ever in the
Bear Stearns deal. All those assets came over and were marked.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Fair value.
JAMIE DIMON: At fair value. There were reserves for litigation, severance, a whole bunch of stuff like that, but
they were our best estimate. There's nothing left over from Bear Stearns. If you said what would your losses have
been in mortgages this quarter had you not done the Bear Stearns deal, my guess is about 40% of that came
from Bear Stearns.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Terrific. That's exactly what I wanted to know. Thank you so much.
OPERATOR: We go next to Mike Mayo with Deutsche Bank.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. So when do you get the $25 billion in preferred?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know. I think the paperwork is not finished on that. And obviously, we are going to read
that very carefully.
MIKE MAYO: And would you be willing to use that $25 billion for new acquisitions?
JAMIE DIMON: I would be willing to use it for anything that made sense to JPMorgan shareholders.
MIKE MAYO: And Bear Stearns, how much of the Fed's backup has been eaten into?
JAMIE DIMON: There's no Fed backup. The Fed is financing $30 billion of assets and we're taking the first $1.1
billion or whatever the number is of loss there. Again, we've been very consistent. We think the Fed is going to
Page 7 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

get all their money back and we expect to get a little bit of our first loss note back, too. But I don't know. They're
managing that. It's up to them and it depends how they manage it over time. They make their own reports, by the
way, what they think the market value of that is and the last report I saw said about -MIKE MAYO: About what it started at.
JAMIE DIMON: It's about what it started at. And it's obviously bounced all over the place in the last month.
MIKE MAYO: And have you made any changes to mark-to-market accounting. I guess there's been a lot of noise
the SEC. And there's an IASB proposal for European banks that would allow them to move assets from fair value
accounting to more loan type accounting. Any views on all this? Any changes ahead or any changes already
made?
JAMIE DIMON: We have made no changes to our accounting. I think what the SEC guideline sent out is that, in a
market where there's no trading, that you've got to use your judgment and models and stuff like that. We've made
no change in ours. I think the European banks -- we are already allowed if we want to move from a trading
account to a health and maturity account. We took you all through that last time. We did do that with a little bit of
stuff. We put up a lot more reserves, not less, when we did that. As a matter of fact, we wanted more reserves. I
think they said the banks can do that themselves in Europe now.
MIKE MAYO: And then, last question. As far as your outlook, you mentioned the Lehman bankruptcy risks
remain, and I guess that relates to CDS, but can you elaborate and how important are these risks?
JAMIE DIMON: We think we are going to be fine in those risks, but we just want to point it out. There's really two
things, to simplify a little bit. One is trading, honestly all of us thought that if you ever saw a -- we used to call it the
major dealer exit, that it would be very tough on trading. It was but I think it was -- I think the street was able to get
through that rather quickly and easily. But there are still some open issues relating to that, but not big. And the
second is we were a huge financing tri-party agent and we have collateral against that and some of that collateral
we have to liquidate, some of that belongs to some other people. We think that will all sort out.
MIKE MAYO: Thank you.
OPERATOR: We go next to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Could you talk a little bit about the Card
business? We realize that the house had passed some legislation that potentially will make its way to the Senate
in the beginning of the year and you've got the Fed regulators looking at a proposal (inaudible) common period.
What are you doing in the Card business to prepare yourself for the potential that these regulations -- or
legislation changes?
JAMIE DIMON: So first of all, keep in mind that we already had eliminated double cycle billing and we had
already eliminated off-us pricing, this is where we price -- that we changed your pricing because of FICO score
changes or something like that. So two of the biggest things that people complain about, we already don't do. So
put them to the side. And that cost us money. I forgot the number. We disclosed here at one point, it took like
$300 or $400 million -MICHAEL CAVANAGH: $700 million, going back about a year, three-quarters or a year.
JAMIE DIMON: So the other stuff, and there's a whole bunch of stuff out there. I would put in the category of it
could be significant, so any one change on its own could be hundreds of millions of dollars, or something like that
in total they could be well over $1 billion. But there are actions that would take place that would that would change
a lot of that. So for example, if you can't reprice certain loans, you are not going to make certain types of loans. If
you have to have people pay off teaser rate loans last on a series of loans, we're not going to make teaser rate
loans. So a lot of that stuff I think competitively it will cause kind of changes in profits in the short run, but not in
the long run. It will change your prices. If you cannot price for risk, you are going to charge everybody else more.
That's what's going to happen. So -BETSY GRASECK: And I know in your proposal -- I mean in your comments to the Fed, you indicated that the
industry or your portfolio in particular would be smaller. Can you give us any sense of the degree to which you
think you might need to pull back on outstandings.

Page 8 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: We already have, but honestly, some of the fees or outstandings we were going to pull back on
weren't that profitable anyway. So we're going to run the business for profit. If outstandings go down $10 billion,
so be it.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then, when you did the WaMu announcement, you indicated a slide where you
had your home lending loss severity expectations based on current estimates, deeper recession, severer
recession. Based on what you were saying earlier, it seems like you might be triangulating more towards a
deeper recession in your outlook. Is that fair to say or not?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Our outlook is kind of what we see with a little twist that we expect it to get worse. And so
we don't really know but I think, Betsy, you know us, we have to be prepared that it gets a lot worse. And we are.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jeff Hart with Sandler O'Neill.
JEFFERY HART, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning. In the mortgage related exposures in the
Investment Bank, you showed a decline. I think you said $4.3 billion of it went into Corporate.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Correct.
JEFFERY HART: Of the total decline going back beyond just the third quarter, how much has gone into
Corporate? Do you know?
JAMIE DIMON: Nothing other than that.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Just that piece.
JAMIE DIMON: Let me explain. So Corporate has a $100 billion portfolio, and that portfolio is for interest rate
exposures, for collateral reasons, to manage the balance sheet of the company. We are moving some of that
portfolio slowly and carefully into higher yielding assets. Because remember, we're here for shareholders. And
some of these assets we think are going to give great returns to shareholders over time. So it's not any great
rush, but those assets will include a little bit of AAA CLO, a little bit of bank preferred, a little bit of Alt-A, a little bit
of CMBS. And we're not going to do it ad hoc, we're just going to do it over time. So those that they move were
the same type of assets they were buying. And they were moved to fair value, so there's no benefit.
JEFFERY HART: And as we've done book, are they marked to market?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, most of those will continue to be marked to market in the treasury portfolio. So you will see a
little more volatility in Corporate, because more of the assets there are being held in a trading portfolio, because
they have -- for a whole bunch of reasons they have to be, but again, like we said, we are here for shareholder
results. And if we have to take a little bit more risk to do a good thing for shareholders, we're willing to take a little
more volatility.
JEFFERY HART: Okay. And I know there's no way to normalize trading revenues, but if we kind of back out the
big markdowns, the $3.6 billion in the quarter, trading revenues looked really, really good.
JAMIE DIMON: They were really, really good.
JEFFERY HART: Is that kind of, "wow, that was fantastic, we'll never see that again"? I'm just surprised given
how much volatility there was in the quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: Honestly, it was an exceptional performance. Some areas I think the rising tide lifted all boats, so
I think you'll see a lot of trading desks in certain currencies and certain rates where the rising tide lifted all boats.
In other areas, our people just did an exceptional job. Emerging markets, we were hedged for downturns on the
equity side. We were prepared and positioned for markets going down, so we benefited from that. And we're not
taking big bets on it, but it was a pretty good performance. Again, we don't expect that to repeat, though.
JEFFERY HART: Okay. And then finally, from a deposit standpoint, almost $970 billion on the balance sheet is
more than at least I was expecting combining you guys with Washington Mutual and factoring in some growth to
that. That can you talk at all about -- are you gaining more market share there? Is there any pricing pressure
changes in the deposit side?

Page 9 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: We think in the market share side on the wholesale side, yes. You see that in TSS. We think in
Private Bank the answer would be yes. Retail, the answer is no. Part of the reason, we weren't competing
aggressively for funds, nor are we in areas where you had this big flight to quality. So I think if you were in
California or Florida and you were strong, you had a big inflow. We weren't in California and Florida, so we
weren't the beneficiary of flight to quality in California and Florida -- but we think we're probably gaining a little bit
of share. I think deposits in the last month are up $100 billion in total. That number may be off a little bit, but it's a
huge number.
JEFFERY HART: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: We'll go next to Meredith Whitney with Oppenheimer.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Good morning. I have a few questions that are all
interrelated. You didn't quantify how many of your businesses are impacted by the prime/LIBOR inversion and I
just want to be clear in terms of the decline in originations on your mortgage portfolio, was that more credit based
or in terms of tightening underwriting standards or prime/LIBOR challenge?
JAMIE DIMON: Let me step back. Prime/LIBOR has a huge negative effect we took on Card. It's got a modest
beneficial affect across other businesses, so that's not a big deal and it doesn't affect -- directly affect the
origination business. The origination business, and I think it's true for a lot of people in the industry, Meredith, that
people have gone back to old fashioned 80% LTV, real verified income, more disciplined appraisals, and then in
some areas they won't even go to 85% LTV because of expected home decreases, so we are not at 80% in
California, Nevada, or Florida.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: 65 is the max.
JAMIE DIMON: We're at 65%. So that's why it's down. I think it's true for us and everybody else. Almost
everything being originated is eligible for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or FHA. So therefore you have this great
reduction for us and other people in origination. Obviously the quality of that stuff is going to be much higher.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. My follow-up is -- and thank you for that -- my follow-up is, given the fact that the
industry is pulling back credit across the board, is that sort of a "chicken and egg" question, are you seeing areas
where you've pulled back credit deteriorating much further? Obviously the sand states are experiencing the most
credit deterioration, but have you given a test example of pulling back credit in one area and seeing all your
competitors and that being a catalyst for deteriorating -- chronic increase in deteriorating credit?
JAMIE DIMON: No, I think the answer is probably yes, but we'll never really know. And so if everyone pulls credit
out of California, obviously it will accelerate the depreciation of homes in California and make it harder and scarier
for people to provide credit. Let me just make a general comment about a crisis like this. One of the things that
happens, which I think the government is focusing on, is there are a lot of individual actors. I am talking about you
as investors, banks as providers of credit, individuals, small businesses, large businesses, all start to take actions
that are rational for them as an individual or corporation, but in total, can cause exactly what you are talking
about. And that's one of the things that the government is trying to reverse. It's not just the banks. It's the
individuals who invest in banks, it's people who provide capital to other financial institutions who are pulling it out
or moving their money back overseas. And so you do see a little bit of that, and they are trying to arrest that. That
is the one thing that's got people most scared and they are trying to stop it. Like I said before, I think what the
government is doing is pretty powerful medicine. I say the governments around the world is pretty powerful
medicine, and I think will you start to see some beneficial effect of that in the next couple weeks.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. If you really believed that, you'd be gunning credit card lines, right, because you'd
believe that the inversion would abate on prime LIBOR.
JAMIE DIMON: We're not big speculators, but we are buying slightly more risky assets and we're growing our
businesses everywhere, so we're not panicking. Credit cards were up, credit card receivables are up. We are not
pulling out of California. We're still going there. We're still marketing. Obviously we try and modify what's going
on, but we are not going to say, "yahoo, this is over", and extend credit like we did without fear. If you are not
fearful, you're crazy.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: I'm fearful.
JAMIE DIMON: We know you are. We're waiting for you to reverse your position.
OPERATOR: We go next to William Tanona with Goldman Sachs.
Page 10 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

WILLIAM TANONA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, guys. Some of the other investment banks
provided some pretty good color in terms of where they have certain assets marked within their investment bank.
And I just wonder if you guys would be willing to provide that same level of detail across prime, alt-A, subprime,
CMBS. You give the exposure reductions, but we don't really know where those things are marked.
JAMIE DIMON: So leverage loans we did, and I'll give you some numbers now. Ready? Prime loans is not really
applicable. Securities are marked in the high 50s. Alt-A performing loans about mid 70s, non-performing loans,
40s. That's loans. Alt-A securities, high 20s. Subprime mid-30s. CMBS loans mid-80s. Securities mid-70s, that's
all we are going to give you because it's competitive information.
WILLIAM TANONA: Okay, that's extremely helpful. And then in terms of the Retail Financial Services, just getting
a better understanding, again, if I look at kind of the charge-off rates for the loans: prime loans that are in Retail
Financial Services, it looks like it's about 96 basis points this quarter versus the charge-offs for Corporate, which
are about 30 basis points, about one-third. Just trying to understand the differences between those prime
mortgages held in RFS versus Corporate.
JAMIE DIMON: It's mostly vintage, Bill.
WILLIAM TANONA: That's strictly it.
JAMIE DIMON: We may change our reporting of that and combine so we don't cause this confusion going
forward. One of this things I should mention -- Mike mentioned it, it's when we look at the mortgage business, by
the way, that we kind of looked at the $12 billion ongoing, it's trading, moving, that's what we need to do to
service clients, properly marked, you shouldn't see huge -- obviously risk in trading but it should be back to more
normal kind of risk. And there's $6 billion, it's marked, but put it in as kind of liquidating, very hard to trade. There's
certain residuals you can't trade at all. And it's marked down to we're going to get -- I would believe we are going
to get very substantial returns from 10 to 20%, (inaudible) as we liquidate it using fairly bad assumptions. So we
don't like it, but it's not that big a deal any more.
WILLIAM TANONA: Okay. Then just finally, the commentary in terms of your outlook, you talked about basically
expecting or having lower expectations for earnings within the Investment Banking results. Is that just -- is that
relative to this quarter or is that just in general what we should be expecting?
JAMIE DIMON: I just think you should be very cautious. I'm guessing what the environment is going to be. So this
crisis isn't over, so we are just guessing, like you can guess on your own. We don't know anything that you don't
know. We are just guessing that it still can be pretty tough out there for awhile. You might have some more
markdowns that -- Mike had mentioned that we have really healthy loan losses, $77 billion of loans I think the
number is. We have almost 4% up against that. That's historically high, but it's very idiosyncratic. If one big
company fails, that could be a huge loss for us, so we're just prepared for it to be a little tougher in the Investment
Bank. We hope to make some money, but we are not going to count on it for now.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: The guidance is not different than what we said last quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: I wouldn't be shocked if we make a lot of money one of these quarters either, by the way.
WILLIAM TANONA: Understood. Thanks.
OPERATOR: We'll go next to James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Good morning. Just a couple of follow-up
questions. One, just in the mortgage market with the TARP, are you seeing any impact on stabilizing pricing
there, which could help maybe reduce the risk of write-downs going forward?
JAMIE DIMON: A little bit, a little bit in alt-A, maybe a little bit in some of the CMBS stuff. Remember, TARP
hasn't started yet, just the -JAMES MITCHELL: Anticipation.
JAMIE DIMON: -- just the anticipation might cause some of that. Surprisingly we haven't really seen anything in
agencies. CMBS, which spreads are still damn near the highs and we think those are probably very good buys. I
would expect one day, we're going to wake up, those snap in dramatically. And then we'll probably be mad at
ourselves we didn't buy more.

Page 11 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MICHAEL CAVANAGH: And then the buying that was announced last weekend by the agencies monthly, $20
billion each, is going to be helpful as well.
JAMES MITCHELL: Fair enough, so -JAMIE DIMON: Listen, we wrote off the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferreds, down to $0.05 or something like
that, whatever they are, I think we'll get real value for that back one day too. I just think it could be years from
now.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right. Maybe that dovetails into the securities gains that you had this quarter. Was that
realized in the available for sale portfolio or was it marked to market in your corporate trading book? Or is it
hedges? Where were those gains?
JAMIE DIMON: It was realized in the AFS portfolio. There was some trading losses in there that -MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Some trading losses on some non-interest rate products and just changing coupon
trades in some of the mortgages on there that were realized gains.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay, fair enough. Thanks a lot.
OPERATOR: we go next to Glenn Schorr with UBS.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. First a quick one on the FDIC's temporary liquidity guarantee
program. Do you know round about how much you have coming due through June 30th and is there any reason
why you wouldn't max out on that issuance?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't have the number handy, Glenn, and we haven't really talked through it exactly.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It would be a lot of money.
JAMIE DIMON: Remember, it includes -- the way we understand it, it includes CP, promissory notes, maturing
debt, all unsecured, holding company and bank, so it's a pretty big number. And it's 125% of that.
GLENN SCHORR: It seems like well worth it, not that your balance sheet was in that rough of a spot, it just
seems like -JAMIE DIMON: So you guys basically want to take all the money, leverage it up and go for it.
GLENN SCHORR: I don't know. Hunker down in the bunkers sounds pretty good to me these days. On the
balance sheet, on slide four, you saw other assets double from $90 billion to $180 billion. Is that anything in
particular?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: You mean the supplement, Glenn?
GLENN SCHORR: Correct. Yes.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: I think -- let me come back to you on. That it may just be all the cash that's coming in,
going into -JAMIE DIMON: I don't think cash. It's probably WaMu related.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It's got to be WaMu.
JAMIE DIMON: We'll get back to you.
GLENN SCHORR: Then -JAMIE DIMON: We're liquidating loans up in there.
GLENN SCHORR: And then just the last one is, I could be way early in asking this question, but what are the
signs you do look for in terms of when the boosting of the reserves stops? Because you are at obviously
extremely high levels, as you pointed out, on the loan loss reserve. Is it the pace of increase on the loan
delinquencies, unemployment, and charge-offs?

Page 12 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I think the second you see a levelization of charge-offs, with some certainty going forward, that
you don't need any additions to reserves. Keep going until all the questions are asked.
GLENN SCHORR: I'm good. Thanks.
OPERATOR: We go next to Ron Mandle with GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. On the treasury program, if you think of what a longer term -- there's
some incentives to buy back the preferred stock that the treasury is taking, the number of warrants, the higher
coupon, I'm wondering if you could maybe elaborate on how you think about you may want to issue stock to buy
back the preferred, and also just maybe how many warrants you think are going to be issued under the program.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. So once you -- once we decide to go in the program I was thinking, can we have $50
billion? So think of it this way. Obviously by the time you get to 9%, you will probably want to have paid it off. And
the warrants are equal to the value you are getting. So in our case, they are going to get warrants, the way it's
currently written, 10-year warrants on $3.75 billion of stock. And those warrants are worth -- you can estimate at
$1.2 billion, whatever you come up with, which is an additional cost on the $25 billion. So it's 5%, plus the way I
look at it, a year, plus another 5% for the full term. You just monetize the cost of the warrants, so it's not bad
money that way. There is a way if you refinance it sooner, and you've got to refinance it with real Tier 1 capital,
that you can eliminate half the warrants, and we'll deal with that in due course. That to me becomes purely a
financial decision, to do that or not do that, but the government made this part of it not an unattractive thing so
that people can get the capital, use the capital, and hopefully do some good with the capital.
RON MANDLE: I didn't follow the part about the warrants. How many warrants or warrants for how many shares?
JAMIE DIMON: It's not the shares. It's warrants for $3.75 billion worth of stock.
RON MANDLE: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: You could do your own share calculation. The market value of those warrants would be
something like $1.2 billion or $1.3 billion. You can use your own model.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: The strike is based on a trailing 20-day price.
JAMIE DIMON: Use your own model. I'm simply saying, think of that, it's only -- of the whole $25 billion, it's
another 5%, maybe 6%. So if you spread it over the first five years, of the 5% of money, your money is costing
you 6.5%. It's still cheaper than most companies can raise money at today. And it's real Tier 1, so it's very cheap
Tier 1. So to that extent, it's not a bad economic transaction.
RON MANDLE: And then you could even reduce the warrants, as you mentioned.
JAMIE DIMON: There is a way to reduce them at one point, but you could argue that's a lot of people that won't
want to, because that's cheaper capital than you could otherwise get, if they think they can do something with it.
RON MANDLE: And so on your balance sheet, this is additional Tier 1 capital? I don't think I was following that.
JAMIE DIMON: It's all Tier 1 capital, yes.
RON MANDLE: Not the preferred part, the warrants part.
JAMIE DIMON: The warrants are not Tier 1 capital. They are just a dilution on the balance sheet, I think.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: $25 billion on top of $112 billion in Tier 1 capital we currently have.
RON MANDLE: Then the other part of the FDIC program, besides the debt guarantee, was the checking account
guarantee? Are you going to opt into that and if so what will the cost be?
JAMIE DIMON: I think what they said is 10 basis points in that. And think of that as an operating account
guarantee. I think the real point of that wasn't for JPMorgan, it's for really smaller community banks and stuff who
do a lot of business, small business, middle market, and they don't want those people to be afraid that their
operating accounts are at risk.
RON MANDLE: Right. And then -- but a 10-basis-point cost?
JAMIE DIMON: It doesn't mean anything to us, Ron, either way, whether we do it or don't.
Page 13 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RON MANDLE: Very good. Thank you.
OPERATOR: We'll go next to Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning. Jamie, this is sort of a philosophical question that
may require more foresight than you've got right now, but this treasury program that was announced yesterday I
think came as a bit of a surprise to everybody. It seems to have been done with a few days thought and mostly as
a result of what happened in Europe. But what is your feeling about how this has changed the dynamics for
capital raising? Is it going to make it more expensive for the banking industry to raise capital beyond this period of
Treasury investment? Can you just give me your philosophical thoughts about it?
JAMIE DIMON: Nancy, I don't really think so. And I think that one day everything will have normalized again. It
might be three years out or five years out. I think what they really wanted to do -- and I don't know how long they
worked on this, so I wouldn't assume it was just three days. I do think they had to do something relative to the rest
of the world. If you were in their shoes, you would look and it and say, if the rest of the world is guaranteeing
deposits and the United States is not, the rest of the world -- you might create other consequences. But I agree
with you, making policy on the run is a very hard thing to do and always has these huge unintended
consequences, which is really hard to forecast or have any foresight on at all. But I think one day it will normalize
and it will make raising capital for banks more expensive for banks. We'll go back to a more normal world and
people will probably spend a lot more attention on credit, which they should.
NANCY BUSH: And just -- you have been a huge beneficiary of basically institutional failures in this environment.
Is it your sense that this treasury program will slow that process? Is it intended to slow the process? Is it intended
to prop up banks that should probably fail? Is that one of the unintended consequences?
JAMIE DIMON: I think that one of the consequences is that this program obviously helps the weaker more than it
helps the strong. And I think I mentioned at the beginning that, if you don't want to be parochial and selfish, as
long as it's really materially helping the system, we all should be in favor of it. We can sit around the table and
argue all day long, we would have been better off, and it's true -- you're not better off if the system goes down.
But I don't think the intent on the treasury, I think they're very conscious of -- they don't intend to hold up failing
banks. And you haven't seen them do that. What you have seen them do is be pretty aggressive to try to get
failing banks in the hands of good owners. So they are going to have, throughout this program, the devil will be in
the details how they manage it. We'll all be looking at how they really manage it going forward. And we'll be
second guessing them, too, at one point.
NANCY BUSH: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Mr. Dimon and Mr. Cavanagh there are no further questions at this point.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you very much. We'll talk to you soon.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Thanks, everybody.
OPERATOR: And that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. Have a good day.
Disclaimer - The information contained in this transcript is current only as of the date the presentation was made.
JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update any information contained in this presentation to reflect the
impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of this presentation. Accordingly, the information
contained in this presentation may be superseded by more current information.
Please refer to JPMorgan Chase's more current filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are
available elsewhere on this website.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
Page 14 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020081029e4af0018l

Page 15 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

