Q3 2010 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
13,565 words
13 October 2010
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase's third quarter 2010
earnings call. This call is being recorded. Your lines will be muted for the duration of the call. We are now going
live to the presentation. Please stand by. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's
Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Doug Braunstein. Mr. Braunstein, please go
ahead.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator. It's Doug Braunstein. I'm going
to be taking you through the earnings presentation, which is available on our website. We'll take questions after
walking through the presentation, and one final note, there's a slide in the back of the presentation regarding
forward-looking statements. Please read it.
With that, let me move to page one. We generated $4.4 billion in net income, $1.01 per share on revenues of
$24.3 billion. We're highlighting three items here that relate to significant changes in our reserve positions in the
quarter. First, as you know, we released reserves in the Card Services, representing $0.22 a share of an increase
to earnings in the Corporate sector. We increased our litigation expense through increasing our reserve and that
reduced earnings by $0.18 and in RFS we booked an increase in our mortgage repurchased reserves, that
reduced earnings about $0.15.
And that obviously runs through as a contrary revenue item. Broadly, as you look down, we had solid results in
our businesses but I'm going to cover those specifically when we talk about the specific businesses on the
following pages. One final note, on page one, Tier One common at the bottom of the page, about a little under
$111 billion in the quarter. That's up $3 billion quarter on quarter.
Let's -- I've covered much of the important information on page two. Let's move to page three, the Investment
Bank. Circled net income of $1.3 billion, on revenues of $5.4 billion. IB fees in the quarter, $1.5 billion. We
continue to be ranked number one in fees, but markets there remain highly competitive. The results demonstrate
some particular strength in our debt capital markets businesses, as well as our Asian Investment Banking
businesses and you'll see in the back, on page 19 very strong lead table results. Fixed Income revenue was $3.1
billion for the quarter, that's down year on year on lower volumes and tighter spreads.
However, if you look quarter on quarter, and you exclude the negative impact of DVA which was $150 million in
this quarter and that DVA reflects the credit spread tightening on our structured notes, versus the benefit of $400
million in second quarter, revenues were actually up modestly quarter on quarter, largely consistent volumes and
spreads from our client businesses. In Equity Markets, revenues were a $1.1 billion, up year on year and quarter
on quarter, very solid client revenues in our global equities business that was offset by declines in prime services,
as lower spreads continue to offset actually higher balances we had in the quarter. The quarter results for equities
includes DVA impact of a negative $100 million this quarter versus a $200 million benefit we highlighted in 2Q.
A word on credit. You'll see credit costs were favorable, $142 million benefit, as we released reserves in the
quarter. Net charge-offs, however, are 25 basis points and that continues to reflect what we talked about which is
strengthening of Corporate balance sheets across our client base. Expenses in the quarter of $3.7 billion, that's
down both quarter on quarter and year-over-year. That's largely a function of lower performance based comp as
well as the impact of the UK bonus tax charges we took in the second quarter and comp to revenue was 38% in
the quarter for the Investment Bank.

Page 1 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

On page four, let's spend a moment on RFS. At the top of the page, you'll see circled net income of $900 million,
that's on $7.6 billion worth of revenue. I want to focus in on the three component businesses. Retail Banking,
which you know is our branch and deposit taking businesses, had $848 million of net income in the quarter, $4.4
billion worth of revenue. Revenues are down year-over-year. That's principally driven by the NSF/OD fee changes
in 2010. They're fully reflected in this quarter versus a 50% impact in second quarter.
That reduction was offset by a number of positives in the quarter including an improved deposit margin as well as
we continue to increase our branch footprint, ATM footprint, and increase in the number of checking accounts in
the quarter and number of other positive production metrics you can see on the next page. Expenses are up in
the quarter, slightly. That's largely a function of our continuing investment in our sales force and our distribution
business as we continue to add bankers and specialists in the branches.
Mortgage banking and other consumer lending, which is in the middle of the page, which reports our mortgage
loan origination, our servicing activity, auto and our other consumer lending businesses earned $200 million in net
income for the quarter. $1.9 billion of total revenue and that really included very strong mortgage banking revenue
of $2.5 billion in the quarter. That's before considering repurchase reserves, which I'll talk about in a moment.
That was largely driven by higher mortgage origination, $41 billion in the quarter, up 27% quarter-over-quarter.
Loan repurchase expense was $1.5 billion in the quarter, and that negatively impacts the revenue line as a contra
revenue item as you recall. We increased reserves in the quarter $1 billion. And that's largely based on the
continuation of the high level of requests for loan files in the GSEs as well as repurchase demands. As a result of
that increase, total reserves are now at $3 billion for the category. In addition, our realized losses for settled
claims roses in the quarter as well. And that's largely because we're working on working down our aged claim
inventory.
Going forward, we think our realized repurchased losses, what would be the functional equivalent of charge-offs,
are going to remain high in 2011 and we've guided you to $1 billion plus or minus. But eventually as we work
through bad vintages, we would expect those actual costs to come down. Other expenses in this category are up
21% year-over-year, and that largely reflects higher default related costs. And one other note here. Our auto
business had very strong earnings, credit improvement, lower delinquencies and a continued strength in our used
car values, all contributed to that.
Finally, at the bottom of the page, real estate portfolios experienced a loss of $148 million in the quarter.
Revenues, which are principally NII, are down 18%, and that's largely consistent with the runoff in our balances
quarter on quarter and year-over-year. And credit costs, which I'll spend time on page six really a function of net
charge-offs this quarter, declined to $1.2 billion. So what I'd like to do is skip page five. I covered much of that
information. Talk a little bit about home lending on page six. And let's focus first on the circled numbers.
Reduction in our total home lending net charge-offs in the quarter, we went to $1.2 billion from $1.34 billion in 2Q.
And if you look at appendix slide 17, which is our normal chart showing our delinquency trends, you'll see that the
curve has essentially remained flat across the categories through the third quarter, and that's the same trend we
talked about in May and June of 2Q. In addition to that, HPI, home prices remain stable and as a result, loss
severities remain stable in the quarter as well. So if you look at these numbers, and you remember that losses lag
new delinquencies by approximately five months, that what you see reflected in this quarter really is the benefit of
the delinquency reductions that we saw in the first four months of 2010, and if delinquencies remained flattish,
which they have for the past five months, you would expect to see our losses going forward flatten out as well.
Bearing that in mind, if you look at the right side of the page, right, you'll see that our loss guidance for the quarter
remains unchanged at $1.8 billion.
Now, if you take our run rate of the last two quarters and you were to annualize that, we would have a run rate of
about $5 billion to $5.2 billion. We have reserves as you know, in this category of $11.3 billion. Those remained
unchanged during the quarter. And the reason we're keeping both our reserves and our guidance where they are
is that there is continuing economic and housing market uncertainty and we want to reflect that in those two
numbers.
Finally, the WaMu PCI position, which is at the bottom right of the page, you'll notice we haven't changed our
allowances or our existing marks. Remember, these are lifetime estimates, and so they include some
assumptions about the future improvements in both our trends for delinquencies and severities. And we do note
at the bottom here that if delinquencies and severities remain flat for a two-year period, that we would have to add
incrementally $3 billion plus or minus to our reserves.

Page 2 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Page seven, Credit Card business. The top of the page, net income of $735 million on revenues of $4.3 billion.
Credit costs is the big story for the business this quarter. Total costs is $1.6 billion in 3Q. We had $1.5 billion
pretax reduction in our loan loss reserves.
That largely reflects a lower estimate of future losses and it's really based on the two numbers circled at the
bottom of the page. Our charge-off rate went to 8.06% for the Chase portfolios, excluding WaMu, that's down
almost 100 basis points quarter-over-quarter, 30 plus day delinquencies declined 35 bps to 4.13%. One final note,
our absolute dollar of charge-offs continue to remain very high, $3.1 billion in the quarter versus $3.7 billion in 2Q.
I'm going to spend a moment here on outlook for where we are on net charge-off rates. We gave you prior
guidance this past month that we believe net charge-off rates will decline in 4Q another 50 basis points to 7.5%,
plus or minus. And we're maintaining that guidance. The revenue line just spend one more moment there, $4.3
billion in revenues is down quarter on quarter and year on year. That's largely a function of lower outstandings.
That includes our WaMu portfolio runoff as well as lower balance transfers, which we talked about last month.
EOP balances for the quarter are down $7 billion, and almost $29 billion year-over-year. Revenues were also
down because of the impact of the CARD Act. The run rate this quarter is about 65% of the total guidance we
gave you of $750 million in net income. That's up from a 25% run rate in 2Q. On the positive side, I would note
that sales volume for our Chase portfolio is up almost 8% year-over-year, 2% quarter on quarter, means people
are taking their Chase cards out of their wallet and using them.
Net interest margin at the bottom of the page, up 50 basis points quarter on quarter. That largely reflects a lower
level of fee reversals as our credit trends continue to improve. Some runoff of some introductory balances and
then a favorable mix in our loan balances. One other word here on balances and outlook. We're guiding towards
year-end balances of $123 billion for the Chase portfolio. That's down 15% year-over-year. And that's a function
of both charge-offs as well as our pullback in our balance transfer business.
Receivables in this category, we would expect to bottom out in Q3 2011 and end the year in 2011 plus or minus
$120 billion. The WaMu portfolio we would expect to decline at the end of 2011 to $10 billion. It began 2010 at
$20 billion. We're down to $14.5 billion as of Q3.
Page eight, the Commercial Bank. Overall a strong result for the Commercial Bank. Net income of $470 million,
up a little under 40% year-over-year. Revenues of $1.5 billion is a record for the Commercial Bank this quarter
and it reflects a number of very positive outcomes. Gross Investment Banking fees in the quarter were a record
revenue. We acquired $3.5 billion CTL commercial term lending portfolio in the quarter. We continue to build out
our footprint of bankers in the WaMu states and that's developed into attractive business with new customers.
And our liability balances ended the quarter at $138 billion.
The other circled number here on the page are loan balances of $98.1 billion. If you exclude the acquisition
impact, they're essentially flat. But we do see some signs of activity. We've had an increase actually in our loan
balances in the middle market, up $900 million quarter on quarter and that's the first time in many quarters we
have seen growth there. Some of that is our existing customers, much is new customers. We added almost 500
customers in the quarter in the middle market. And our utilization rates, however, still remain in the low 30s.
Credit costs of $166 million in the quarter, largely reflect an increase in charge-offs in our commercial real estate
segment. You'll see net charge-off rate here of a little under 90 basis points, 89 basis points. Commercial real
estate represents about 80% of the net charge-off rate. That's versus 62% in 2Q. And we would expect to see
continued pressure going forward from commercial real estate. Remember, our commercial real estate balances
are not a significant component of the total portfolio.
Page nine, Treasury and Security Services. Circled net income here of $250 million in the quarter. That's down
slightly from last year and last quarter. I would say the story for TSS remains essentially the same to the second
quarter. We have this low rate environment. It continues to pressure our revenues across both WSS and TS and
that's coupled with some incremental investments we've been making and that's reducing our margin over the
near term.
Revenues of $1.8 billion were up modestly year-over-year, down modestly quarter on quarter. And expenses
you'll note are up $130 million year-over-year. And so just a moment to remind everyone, we continue to make
investments in this platform in our global Corporate bank, our international branch network, our international
product capabilities, incremental product expansions and other platform spending. One other final note, TSS here
had $1 trillion increase in assets under custody quarter-over-quarter.

Page 3 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Asset Management on page 10, circled net income of $420 million. Revenues in the quarter, $2.2 billion, up both
year-over-year and quarter on quarter. And that's based on a number of factors. We had a continuing increase in
fund flows in the quarter, almost $38 billion. That included $27 billion into liquidity products, which is our first
positive quarter in a year. We had $11 billion of flows into long-term products which are higher margin. And that's
the six consecutive quarter of positive in-flows there, and largely all of that is based on continued strong
investment performance.
We also had revenues up on higher market levels, and we also in the quarter saw a significant increase in our
mortgage production in Asset Management. Expense growth here, if you look year-over-year, was up $137
million, again a story of continued investment for long-term growth. We're hiring front office folks, so our Private
Banking advisors were up 17% year-over-year. And a large percentage of that internationally. We continue to
invest in technology here, particularly in the Private Bank, to improve both the speed and the efficiency of those
platforms.
Page 11 is Corporate and Private Equity. You'll note here we had a very strong Private Equity quarter this quarter.
$344 million of net income impact after all the expenses and just a word of caution, Private Equity the results here
can be volatile quarter on quarter. They vary based on timing of realizations, the market values of our public
positions, and so that number will move quarter on quarter.
Corporate net income, $4 million, is down significantly quarter-over-quarter, down significantly year-over-year,
and that really reflects three things. One, reduced net interest income in the quarter. Second, lower security gains
in the quarter. And then third, we increased our expenses in the quarter and that includes $1.3 billion pretax
increase in our litigation reserve and that litigation reserve includes items related to mortgages. We aren't going to
spend a lot more time discussing that particular topic on the call. And the final note of guidance here is that there
will be periodic items that affect the Corporate line. We still believe the net income number should be trending
over time, plus or minus $300 million when you exclude Private Equity.
Page 12, focus on the balance sheet for a moment. Strong results here. Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 common both grew
$139 billion and $111 billion respectively. RWA, total assets were actually up modestly in the quarter. And our
Tier 1 ratios continue to remain very strong.
The absolute levels are higher in both Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common, but there's a modest decline in the ratio
this quarter and that largely reflects the level of repurchase activity, we bought back approximately $2.2 billion,
thank you, Jamie, and that was -- we continue to buy back shares to offset our equity issuance to employees.
Credit reserves remained very strong at $35 billion, and there's details in the back on that and then just one
comment, we've added a new disclosure item here, the global liquidity reserve which is $272 billion. The details of
that are in a footnote but I would just note that outside of the details in the footnote, the firm has a number of other
significant highly marketable liquidity positions and marketable securities, Corporates, equities that aren't included
in that number. All in all, we continue to have a very strong balance sheet position.
Page 13, outlook, I think I've covered all of that. So what I'd like to do, finally, is spend a moment and comment on
the mortgage affidavit issue. We're not going to say too much about this today, other than the comments that
we're giving you here, because we're really at the beginning of this process. But I can share some information
with you.
So let's turn to page 14. We've identified issues relating to the mortgage foreclosure affidavits and those include
signers not having personally reviewed the underlying loan files but instead having relied upon the work of others.
Those others, Chase employees, did conduct reviews of the underlying loan files. And there are circumstances
where affidavits have not been properly notarized.
So I want to just step back and have you understand what the nature of some of the information in this affidavit
relates to. They obviously differ by jurisdiction but in general the types of content that we're attesting to includes
the name of the borrower, property address, the date, whether or not the borrower was actually defaulted and if
they've cured the default and the total amount of indebtedness. As a result of these actions, we're reviewing
115,000, plus or minus, loan files that are currently in the foreclosure process. And we'll do the following based on
that review, either refile the affidavits where appropriate, as you know, we delayed our foreclosure sales and so to
the extent we can, we'll reinitiate those when appropriate. And we're also in the process of putting additional
processes in place to make sure on a go-forward basis, we fulfill all the procedural requirements. Obviously, the
Company takes these matters very seriously and we're devoting substantial resources to the issue.
On page 15, what you'll see at the top headline is really all of these processes are really designed to avoid
foreclosure, if possible. And what we would say today is based on the processes, which I'll describe in a moment,
and the reviews we've done to date, we believe the underlying foreclosure decisions were justified by the facts
Page 4 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

and circumstances but let me give you a little more color on the actual processes we employed, and why we're
comfortable. If you see the first sub-bullet point, 15 days after delinquency is when we first reach out to a
customer. Following that, we will send numerous letters, we'll make numerous phone calls. In fact, the frequency
of those contacts are likely to increase as we head towards a possibility of taking foreclosure action.
In addition to that, we added in 2009 a separate group outside of our processes to review these loans before we
take specific foreclosure actions. So that group -- and you'll see an appendix slide on this -- goes through a series
of questions including, have we made contact, have we pursued mitigation strategies, if appropriate, and you'll
see those questions listed on page 20 of the appendix. As a result of all those actions, since January 2009, we've
prevented 429,000 foreclosures through either modifications, short sales or other loss mitigation actions.
And just to remind everyone, this is a very lengthy process, and so from the initial default to the actual foreclosure
sale, for our serviced mortgages, that's on average 14 months in the process, or 448 days. Mortgages in the state
of Florida for us, that process is 678 days, in New York it is 792 days, more than two years. And in most, if not all
instances, over that period of time no principal or interest payments have been made on the mortgage.
So I think we would like to conclude by saying is that we really believe the proper approach and response here is
to go loan by loan, file by file, customer by customer, and if mistakes have been made then we need to address
them individually which we absolutely will do. Just stepping back, obviously the housing market in the position
that it's in, we would hope that we would be in a position to move briskly here to avoid further damage and further
pressure on the housing market and ultimately further pressure on the economy. With that, I'd like to at this point
open it up for questions for Jamie and I. Operator, would you please open the line?
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). (inaudible)
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Just growing that as equity builds.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: That decision is made all the time, it changes all
the time. Interest rate exposures, and what securities you like, and timing of sales and stuff like that. Some of that
will bounce around, not a deliberate growth strategy in securities.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay. Next one is a little different. You talked a little bit about the conference the
other day, Jamie, but mitigation techniques, in other words, we know the negative side of the impact on returns
and risk weighted assets but on the mitigation side, you talked a little bit about repricing but I want to ask you
what impact can what I'll just sum up under Reg Arb opportunities are there, meaning there are asset managers,
mutual hedge funds, Private Equity funds that don't have the same increase in those requirements so are they
more natural owners of some of the assets and then part B of the question is what about the long dated trades
and contracts that you might have on with the rest of the Street where both sides have the willingness to maybe
tear up contracts and net things out? How much of an impact can they have on the mitigation front?
JAMIE DIMON: So a long question there. I think on the risk weighted asset side, we talk about natural mitigants,
things that are going to run off over time, not really actions we're taking, just securitizations or retail loans, some
of those things run off over time, there will be -- remember, we're economic animals. We're not going to sell
something that we think is a good asset or good return because the RWA is too high relative to capital. So no one
should look at us, say we're going to have to sell something cheap. We have plenty of capital. We can hold
whatever we want. We're going to make economic decisions, not Basel-III related decisions. I do think that you're
going to find people, some other natural owners of certain assets that don't have the same kind of regulatory or
capital stuff.
I don't think that's going to be an unbelievable material thing for us. In a different kind of business it might be more
material. When people really go through this they're going to be able to manage contract, clearing houses,
CVA/DVA, which will diminish the RWA effect pretty dramatically over time. People will really learn how to
manage it better. We haven't tried to do all that. We're not worried about it because we don't really need the
capital.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Between those comments, the confidence and the confidence on the ability to
reprice, obvious statement but you seem reasonably confident that you're able to earn pretty good returns in the
new world.
JAMIE DIMON: We're pretty confident in the new world we'll earn good returns for shareholders. When you talk
about reprice, if you're referring to Retail, it's going to take a while to design the exact product, the exact fees,
exactly when to do it. There may be a little timing difference when it's costing us more money as we design those
products and roll them out but eventually we'll have to reprice it, yes.
Page 5 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Great. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Yes, hi. Doug, was wondering if you could
clarify the outlook on rep and warranty that you gave on the losses for 2010 and 2011 and then in terms of the
income statement impact, just wondering since this is a lifetime reserve methodology, would you -- when would
you expect to start consuming some of the reserves that you built for the rep and warranty or at least matching
instead of building reserves here?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, so on outlook, what we said is for 2010 I think our outlook was plus or minus
$1.2 billion of expense. That obviously you'll take a look at our third quarter numbers are a little higher and so
we're likely to come in at the high end of that range. For 2011, what we've said is $1 billion of realized
repurchased losses. And what we've done is we've taken, based on what we know, we've gone back and
increased our reserves by $1 billion, based on the higher file request as well as higher settlement demands. And
where we are today we believe we're adequately reserved based on what we know and we'll go back periodically
and review that.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So the idea is you're probably not going to start consuming reserves, is it analogous to
the way you do credit reserves. Don't you have visibility this is ending, and you have a better line of sight to the
end, is that the idea?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: It's not lifetime losses exactly. More known and estimable. Extends beyond a year in
this particular case. Repurchased losses will be at $1 billion. That may go on more than a year. At one point you
won't need the reserve and you'll start to hit the $1 billion against the reserves. We just don't know if that's going
to be near the end of 2011 or 2012. But it will be sometime in that period. Just look at vintages and aging and
stuff like that, eventually you won't need the reserves and the expenses will go against the reserve.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then Jamie, on Basel, do you have any sense of timing of when the US regulators
will be deciding on the additional buffer to be required of systemically important institutions?
JAMIE DIMON: Not specifically. They're waiting for this thing in Korea November 20th. At one point, we hope to
get some guidance. In any event, we think that we're in very good shape.
JOHN MCDONALD: Do you have a regulatory green light for capital management? Do you think that banks might
be giving that before Basel is implemented or is there a risk that capital return gets delayed?
JAMIE DIMON: I think everybody's waiting for final Basel-III guidance. The regulators are putting us through
additional stress tests and I think everyone's waiting to get that done. I'll make the same statement I made before.
I think it's reasonably hopeful that sometime in the first quarter we can reinstall a dividend or something like that. I
think it makes sense to do. I think some banks will start retaining far too much excess capital at one point next
year.
JOHN MCDONALD: And the regulators are open to those discussions?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, they are. But they're going through their own calculations and they obviously want to look at
the global issues before they make any final determinations.
JOHN MCDONALD: Last thing here. The net interest margin was down 5 basis points, a lot less of a decline than
last quarter. Do you think you've seen the worse of your NIM pressure and what will be the key drivers for top of
the house, NII going forward?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: I would say where it was down 5 basis points, there are a number of factors that
impact that. We're going to continue to see some pressure in Corporate for NIM. And it's hard to predict at this
point where rates are going to be and what the impact is going to be and where loan demand is going to be the
other side of the equation from an asset standpoint, but it will be down a little bit.
JAMIE DIMON: It would down a little bit next quarter. Most of it's in Corporate. If you look at absolute dollars, we
have it in our portfolios.
JOHN MCDONALD: The card NIM was up a lot this quarter. Did you comment on that, Doug, why that went up so
much this quarter?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: I didn't hear you.
Page 6 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JOHN MCDONALD: The Credit Card NIM went up a lot this quarter, just wondering did you comment on that?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: I did. That's largely a function of lower fee reversals in the quarter and then better mix.
JOHN MCDONALD: Yes. Okay. Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Banc of America-Merrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. First question, just on the Corporate
side.
JAMIE DIMON: Can you get closer to your phone, Guy?
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Sorry, can you hear me now?
JAMIE DIMON: Not quite as well, but keep going.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: First question is with regard to the net interest margin in the Corporate sector where you
added about $30 billion in securities. Based on the comments you've made, should we assume that is extremely
liquid stuff with very low net interest margins, very low margins, low duration stuff?
JAMIE DIMON: I would assume mostly very liquid. I wouldn't assume it's all very low margin.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And duration probably pretty short or not so much?
JAMIE DIMON: I would say fairly short. But that moves around a lot. It may not be the same thing the next time
we talk to you.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: I would just add, remember that as we reposition the portfolio, we're doing that
through a quarter so second quarter sales we had full NIM impact in the third quarter, for example.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. And then just following up on the Basel-III discussion, you had spoken recently at
length about your capital position with that approaching but since then we certainly have heard quite a bit from the
Swiss on the Swiss issue. Standard Chartered was out raising capital yesterday and just wondering even though
you did obviously buy back a couple billion dollars worth of stock, whether you are quite as optimistic about the
potential for capital going forward in light of all of that.
JAMIE DIMON: I would say the same thing. We're already very close to the 7% Basel-III requirement, which
includes that buffer. I know the Swiss came in at 10 which I think is too high. Remember, this should be
consistent with stress tests. When the American government did the stress test at 4% Basel-I, we made the
adjustments to capital RWA. 7% is close to 12% Basel-I. Almost a triple of what the banks were able to survive
under the worst recession of all time under the stress test. So we think the 7% is a very strong number.
And we don't -- I personally don't think there's going to be a market for -- the Swiss has another 9% for CoCos. I
think that's extremely optimistic and almost impossible to occur. So I think we have different issues. The size of
the bank versus the size of their country, so they've got to do what they think is right for them. I would put those
numbers in the extreme category.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Those are fair points. Thanks. The final one I want to ask and I know that you don't feel that
you can say much more on the -JAMIE DIMON: Can you get closer to your phone, Guy or get off the speaker phone, maybe?
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Sorry. I'm in a strange conference room with a weird setup so I apologize. I just wanted to
dig in a little bit more on the foreclosure issues. I know you can't talk too much more about it than what you said. I
was wondering if you could give us any sense for timing of resolution in terms of reopening these 115,000 cases?
JAMIE DIMON: It's going to take several weeks to go through the files and make sure and correct any errors that
are in there. We believe the underlying stuff is all accurate. Okay? So that's the key substance. Obviously we
know there's a lot of state AGs. We have conversations with them. We're hoping the normal process -- for us, the
sooner the better for everybody involved. We don't think there are cases with people have been evicted out of
homes where they shouldn't have been. These foreclosures go through multiple processes, so we're hoping it will
be sooner rather than later and those conversations are starting to take place.
Page 7 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And is it fair to assume that at least a fair portion of that litigation reserve that you added to
is specifically for this topic within mortgage?
JAMIE DIMON: No, nothing in it for this topic. I think the way you should look at this topic is that we're burying
today $7 billion of charge-offs, foreclosure, repurchase costs, this is ex-reserves. That $7 billion will go up or
down based upon the economy and stuff like this. I'm not sure stuff like this is going to dramatically change that
number. It may extend it a little bit longer and stuff like that but -- and remember, we have in total, between the
purchased reserves and $11 billion, we have $14 billion of reserves for repurchases or loan losses.
Look, the mortgage thing is -- we're halfway through all this. We think we should continue and get done and make
sure we do the right thing for the consumers, the investors and the country. Obviously it will increase our costs a
little bit, and maybe we'll have to pay penalties eventually to some of the AGs. We really think it's just continuing.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks very much for the color. Appreciate it.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Good morning.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: I realize you guys don't want to talk in too much detail on the litigation reserve but just
conceptually you've taken a little bit greater than $4 billion of reserves for litigation so far this year. And I guess a
lot of us are just having a hard time understanding what it might be for, and are you getting ahead of it, or still
trying to catch up.
JAMIE DIMON: You know our society, right? You know how many lawsuits go on and class action suits and stock
drop suits and Bear Stearns suits and WaMu suits. It ain't going away. Yes, we always try to get ahead of t it.
We're not going to give you specific detail. When we're wrong, we're going to settle. When we're right we're going
to fight. Not all of those reserves were mortgage-related. They were related to other items we have to deal with as
a Company and we do try to be ahead of it. We try to be very ahead of it, because we think it's the right thing to
do.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, sorry to be a little nitpicky on this question, but if we
look at some of the drivers of your net interest margin, there were some of these dollar financing roles, basically
causing a negative funding cost for about $280 billion of liabilities, and -JAMIE DIMON: No, for some of the liabilities. Go ahead.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Overall, it's minus 28 bps for like $280 billion. Just trying to understand what that is and
what the risks are associated with that.
JAMIE DIMON: It's one of the reasons we tell you it's going to come down next quarter. We don't necessarily
expect all those favorable roles to continue the way they continued. Remember, we're pretty creative in finding
way to do NII. There are other things to buy and other things to do. But we positioned the Company more and
more for raising rates, less rates, portfolios may come down, the benefits of roles may go away. We don't have to
buy low duration mortgage assets. We can buy other things too.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Obviously there's not going to be the type of extension risk on this funding side that you
would have on the asset side, so -JAMIE DIMON: That's correct. This will just go away one day.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Just separately a bigger picture question. The Credit Card losses for you guys
and I think for the industry overall continue to march down at a very nice pace despite very high unemployment.
Once we get to that 7.5% in the fourth quarter, do losses just flatten out at some point unless unemployment gets
better or do you still get a continued trend down?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the likely outcome is for continued trend down and remember, in the Credit Card business,
those losses tend to relate more to new unemployment claims and new unemployment, not just absolute level. If
you look through history. And also, after two and-a-half years you charge off 20% so you really have worked
through a lot of the bad accounts.

Page 8 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: I would add, the accounts we're obviously taking on because we continue to grow the
business have different characteristics than the accounts we're rolling off. The net of the entire portfolio, it's a
better quality portfolio.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Seems like you'll probably have some more reserve relief at some point. Seems
like you're still-JAMIE DIMON: Not at some point. We don't release reserves because we want to. We release them because we
have to. We're conservative. Think of we fight the other way, keep them up, not take them down.
As charge-offs come down in -- if they come down in Credit Cards, we will have to release those reserves. I think
it's a silly post cyclical thing we go through, putting them all up and take them all down. You have to guess what
the earnings will be, is it real earnings or not earnings or normalized earnings. They are going to have to come
down. So you can think of that right now, losses normalize eventually, call it 4.5% in Credit Card, we will have to
take down another $4 billion, $5 billion, $6 billion of reserves.
That isn't a choice. That is an absolute accounting rule. There's underlying assumptions that go into it. It's
judgment calls. My guess is that will be happening slowly over the next six quarters, and you'll see more rapid
change if and when the economy starts to improve. The same will relate also to mortgage losses by the way and
all other losses for that matter.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.
JAMIE DIMON: So the $35 billion of reserves, you go through your own numbers, that's going to normalize a lot
lower than $35.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning, guys. A couple of things. One, capital markets.
Trends as far as client risk attitude, Corporate clients' interest in raising capital, performing M&A, things like that,
what kind of trends are you seeing kind of coming out of the summer?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, so, Jeff, it continues to be -- I would say the big trend is you've had a lot of
companies extend maturities, reduce the cost of borrowing by going into the public markets and so that's been a
very positive thing and balance sheets continue to be very, very healthy. You're starting to see a pickup in the
appetite for M&A and I think part of that is a function of people getting their balance sheets prepared and ready to
go and looking for growth. There continues to be a little more uncertainty out there about both the economy and
what the political landscape entails and so we haven't seen a rush towards activity but you would expect as you
get clarity there to get some real momentum behind it.
JAMIE DIMON: And the trading desk, you all look at one month that got slow, one month it's fast, but pretty good
client activity. I don't see any reason why there wouldn't be pretty good client activity.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: And I would just add across particularly for example in equities, we continue to invest
in systems and platforms and adding to our capabilities as well. So that's been very positive for us in this quarter.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. Non-sufficient funds are kind of the overdraft opt-in, how successful have efforts to get
people to opt into that been?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know if we disclosed the numbers. More than 50% opted in. We're not going to be
disclosing those numbers all the time. It's going to change as people change their mind. Remember they can at
any point in time opt in or opt out.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: What I would say is the $700 million of guidance that we gave you on net income,
that's going to be -- that's in the run rate and an accurate reflection of that.
JAMIE DIMON: The number we gave you is right for the wrong reasons.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. And the foreclosure stuff, outside of how it directly may impact you or somebody else, how
do you look at the drag it may have on the housing market, kind of the macro impact, what do you think about
that?
JAMIE DIMON: Again, I hope -- this is a hope. This is not a knowledge. Is that when people take a deep, sigh
breath, go back to the right, look to the substance underlying the files and go back to modifying, foreclosing and
Page 9 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

doing the right thing, all told, it could be a blip. Talking about three or four weeks it will be a blip in the housing
market. If it went on for a long period of time, it will have a lot of consequences, most of which would be adverse
on everybody.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Good morning.
BETSY GRASECK: Jamie, just wanted to follow up on the BASEL-III comments you made earlier. I know you
kept your common Tier 1 pretty much flat in the quarter. You indicated you're not going to be making BASEL-III
related decisions. Are you managing capital? You're comfortable with where it is today? Is that what we should be
expecting going forward when BASEL-III starts to kick in you start to -JAMIE DIMON: I think we showed you a number that in 2013 when BASEL-III starts to roll in, we will have under
even adverse circumstances like -- I've got the exact number.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: It was 11.
JAMIE DIMON: It rolls in over five years or something like that. So we have lots of capital and so we're really not
managing capital or RWA as much as we're trying to build the business, clients, brokers, traders, salesmen, we
have plenty of capital to grow the business in an intelligent way. A lot of those numbers we showed at the
Barclays presentation, they were not heroic. They were just kind of runoff with basic stuff we know about. I do
think people do a much tighter job of managing those things if and when it becomes important.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: I would just add, we raised year-to-date between our new loans, re-ups, capital
markets, we raised almost $1 trillion for our clients across all of these platforms. We continue to put our balance
sheet to work for our clients and we're anxious to do so. We've got plenty of capacity there.
BETSY GRASECK: BASEL-III related decisions don't kick in until it actually comes into effect in 2013?
JAMIE DIMON: That's correct.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: 2013 would be the first year of phase in. It would phase in between 2013 and full
phase in.
JAMIE DIMON: My guess is we're going to start reporting it to you all at one point just so you see what the
number would be when we know what the final rules out. My guess is we'll be compliant with whatever the
number is sometime next year.
BETSY GRASECK: Nothing you had in the mitigation was actual proactive cancel.
JAMIE DIMON: A teeny bit, but nothing heroic, but it was basic stuff.
BETSY GRASECK: Just a follow-up on capital usage.
JAMIE DIMON: If it had to be done next year we can get it done next year. We could do 10% next year if we
wanted to.
BETSY GRASECK: 10% on?
JAMIE DIMON: We could get to 10% BASEL-III next year if we desired. We'd have to make some tougher
decisions and sell things and stop doing a bunch of stuff, but if that's what we wanted to do, we could do it.
BETSY GRASECK: BASEL-III common Tier 1, 10%, by the end of next year without raising any equity?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, we could do a lot of different stuff. People are going to make decisions to get compliant
quicker than people think. That's what's going to happen in the marketplace.
BETSY GRASECK: One other question on capital usage. We talked about the dividend. What about the
possibility for M&A? Kind of tough long end of the curve environment, are you more incented to do M&A?
Page 10 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I always feel good that we don't have to do M&A. We can just grow our business and do a good
job for our shareholders. We're going to generate a lot of excess capital. Of course we can own the businesses or
buy back stock or do M&A. We're open minded to M&A if there's something that made sense. We're always
looking for bolt-ons and adds in all of the businesses so we would be open.
BETSY GRASECK: What would make sense now?
JAMIE DIMON: I can't tell you that. Think about Morgan, the other Morgan.
BETSY GRASECK: Thanks.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: We're going to obviously just -- we're going to remain disciplined about doing things
that make sense both short-term and long-term for our shareholders.
JAMIE DIMON: We look all the time.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: There will be plenty of opportunities.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. Most of my questions have been answered. But just two
more quick ones. Jamie or Doug, do you have any -- want to provide any color on the pace of the buyback over
the next couple of quarters? Should we expect around $2 billion in near term quarters to be sort of a consistent
trend? I guess that's question number one. And then I'll ask the second one.
JAMIE DIMON: I'm not going to give you an answer about next quarter but I think at one point going forward when
everything clarifies around BASEL, we could be an aggressive buyer of our own stock if we think the price is
cheap. We're not going to do it at any price. We're not like everybody else. Low price we do it, high price we don't.
We have plenty of capital generation. If that's the thing that makes the most sense for shareholders, you can
assume that's what we're going to do. Doesn't mean every week we buy back what we issued that week, that
means generally during the course of the year, but I do that at a minimum.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: That number is plus or minus around $3 billion for 2010.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And with your stock in the low 40s, should we think about fully diluted shares outstanding
shrinking by some amount in 2011?
JAMIE DIMON: We're just not going to tell you what we're going to do with our stock. We're just not -- we look out,
looking a couple years, how much capital, what the options are, what makes the most sense for shareholders.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then at prior conferences and presentations you've talked a lot about different pieces
of the loan portfolio that will shrink and we don't need to go through all that again but I guess could you give some
kind of an outlook three quarters out, four quarters out, when do you think we'll get to that crossover point where
the loan portfolio or loans outstanding stabilizes and then maybe starts to grow a little bit? When do you sort of hit
that inflection point?
JAMIE DIMON: I think that's all over the place. Commercial Bank we're starting to see signs of life and maybe
we'll start to see growth in the next three to six months. Credit Card, it will bottom out we think in the third quarter
of next year. That includes a runoff and all the other stuff. Treasury, Asset Management, we actually had loan
growth, Treasury trade finance, we expect maybe to see both. And then consumer, auto generally would expect
to see growth and the big one, is the $200 billion runoff of stuff a lot of which was acquired from WaMu, that will
be running off for years.
ED NAJARIAN: All right. So it seems like that runoff of that big piece for years could have a pretty significant
impact on where the loan portfolio goes.
JAMIE DIMON: We've got to remember, this is an important thing, when it runs off, first of all, somebody's losing
money, but when it runs off, it frees up capital. So we're not losing potential earnings, because we can go do
something else with it. It's not like on all these other -- some other types of businesses. You're right, leads to
negative revenues, but it does not necessarily lead to negative profits.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: To reiterate, what's happening in our Credit Card portfolio, right, we're shifting the
balance and the mix of customers and the nature of that business. It's a much more attractive business, right. We
added $41 billion in mortgage origination activity in the quarter, and that was very attractive business for us.
Page 11 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: That went to -- most of that goes to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We could change that too and
retain more if we thought that made more sense for our shareholders.
ED NAJARIAN: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. Mortgage banking, we've been
hearing a lot of anecdotal stuff that the mortgage banking business is really, really strong with spreads being
almost 4 points on a -- giving cash and servicing relief. Could you add some color? Do you continue to see that
going into the second quarter. You saw production up 27%.
JAMIE DIMON: Volumes are high. Spreads are high. Unfortunately, it's offset by that repurchase cost because
that's a contra revenue item in that and I think so far volumes are still good and spreads are still fairly high.
PAUL MILLER: And there's a lot of criticism out there that the big banks are not dropping rates as fast as the 10
year and keeping rates too high relative to refinancing. I don't agree with that. Could you add some color to what
you think about that?
JAMIE DIMON: Markets set rates. There are a lot of people price mortgages around the world. That's usually
what determines rates. Sometimes it's how much the system can handle. Sometimes it's people's use of credit
spreads. It's a whole bunch of different stuff. No bank sets the rate.
PAUL MILLER: And we saw Bank of America get rid of their brokerage channel. I guess that's becoming a less
and less part of the business. Used to be half of the business years ago for the industry. Do you see yourself
doing the same thing, not that profitable, not that big of a deal anymore.
JAMIE DIMON: I confessed multiple times that one of the biggest professional mistakes I ever made was not to
get rid of that channel sooner. We did it a while back. I guess you just weren't paying attention.
PAUL MILLER: I'm sorry about that, but it was a very big part. Thanks a lot, guys.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great. Thanks.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: Good morning.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Doug or Jamie, could you maybe talk about a little bit whether you think the model going
forward on the mortgage side changes as a result of this, whether it's expectations of servicing costs, how the
MSR is valued, is there something structural that's going to change as you kind of go through these processes
and everybody else is doing the same thing?
JAMIE DIMON: The spreads will go up and down. It's still such a critical product for the American consumer. We
don't know how the GSE is going to be redone or the mortgage markets, and we do think a lot of work needs to
be done on both. End of the day, servicing mortgages and originating mortgages for clients will still be a good
business with we think a good return. MSR, I think the only material change in the MSR when we all decide that
rates are low and low forever, MSR is one big item, to how we handle the MSR might be a little different.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Following up on that loan growth question, just would seem that at some point you would
start to get a higher retention of mortgages, at least adjustables and maybe even some of the shorter dated fixed.
Do you see that as something that could happen during 2011?
JAMIE DIMON: Remember, every portfolio decision is a kind of almost a discrete decision so whether we retain a
Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac whole loan which is conforming, or buy an adjustable rate security in the security
portfolio, those are almost the same kind of decisions so you have seen some of that taking place but it's in the
securities portfolio, not in the balance sheet of Retail.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: We also just by the way, we do generate and it was a very strong quarter on a relative
basis in Asset Management for mortgages and that also -- we retain much of that.
JAMIE DIMON: On the balance sheet, correct.
Page 12 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: Goes on the balance sheet. I think $1.5 billion this quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: When you look at the jumbo markets, by the way, because the agencies increased their loan
limits a lot more of the jumbo stuff is going to them. Eventually that jumbo stuff may be done and sent to balance
sheets of banks.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Kind of in terms of the process with respect to BASEL, you talked a little bit about it, are
you going to be reporting your BASEL-II to the public? What are we going to see from a regulatory standpoint
during the next couple of quarters.
JAMIE DIMON: We just told you all our BASEL numbers. I think we'll probably be updating you all. BASEL-II was
10 years in the making and it was never done. When we get the final -- what we think might be close to the final
rules by the end of November, we'll probably start telling you roughly, not specifically, what the BASEL-III
numbers will be and when we'll be there and stuff like that, just so you're aware.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: I would go back and comment on what Jamie made before, we can adjust our balance
sheet but it is not our intent to do things that don't make sense as an economic matter to improve over the short
term what our BASEL-III numbers might look like because we do have until 2013 for the initial implementation of
BASEL-III.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
JAMIE DIMON: Hey, Mike.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: How are our DTAs, Mike?
MIKE MAYO: Loan demand, I mean, the utilization rate you said is still in the low 30s.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: That's in the Commercial Bank.
MIKE MAYO: I'm sorry.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: That's in the Commercial Bank.
MIKE MAYO: Right. So you're not seeing any improvement in demand in the Commercial Bank?
JAMIE DIMON: No. Actually, I think the way to look at it is the utilization, these are middle markets, I think it's
more representative than Corporate, they can go to the marketplace too. The middle market use their revolvers to
grow and expand. That utilization is about the same but actual loan demand, including unused is actually up a
little bit.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: About $900 million.
JAMIE DIMON: And actual balances are up a little bit versus the last quarter. So that's the first time in I'm going to
say two years.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: Some of it is customer growth, Mike. But we're starting to see some positive signals
out there. And I would add, just in that middle market, we're also -- we've got a healthy pipeline of things that
we're looking at.
JAMIE DIMON: I hear generally some of the same stuff anecdotally from other banks too.
MIKE MAYO: So these are early indicators of accelerating loan growth? Just that we heard this for the past year.
Is this the real deal?
JAMIE DIMON: I'd say instead of it going down it may actually be going up a little bit but I wouldn't call it
accelerating yet.
MIKE MAYO: And then as far as Asia, the Investment Banking business in Asia is growing nice double digits and
Europe's flat, US is down. What's going on in Asia Investment Banking and more generally how do you think
about the build or buy decision when it comes to Asia consumer?
Page 13 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Okay. I think the investment banking business is doing really well in Asia. Remember, Asia is
doing well so we grow with the market and the economy and we've added bankers and clients and so we're
obviously building up there. And I think on the consumer side, there will be no build. Okay, there will be no build in
the consumer side in Asia. It's too hard to do. We're not going to try. Sometime in the future, and that could be
two years, one year or 20, a buy is -- I'd put it at a pretty high likelihood.
MIKE MAYO: And as far as what sort of prices you think you can afford with the cost of capital being lower, with
the current interest rate environment, has it gone up?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but that's what I'm saying, I wouldn't pick the timetable here. If it doesn't make sense we're
not going to do it. I think we create the most opportunity for JPMorgan, really buying -- you don't buy consumer.
You basically buy a bank and it comes with all the attendant businesses with it. I think the time will be when
JPMorgan is doing well, the dollar is doing well, financing costs are low and maybe Asia is not doing quite as well.
I would say now is not the time.
MIKE MAYO: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: We may do something now but I don't think it will be kind of the nature you're talking about.
MIKE MAYO: Then a clarification. The foreclosure suspension, it's a matter of weeks instead of months, did I hear
you say that?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: No.
JAMIE DIMON: I didn't say weeks to clean up the files. We actually have to have little in depth conversations with
regulators and AGs and stuff like that. So I don't know exactly when. I'm hopeful that it all starts to move at one
point. I don't know if it's going to be three weeks or five. But I think it will be a real shame if we don't get this
resolved and moving again.
MIKE MAYO: In all likelihood you should be allowed to foreclose as we go into next year.
JAMIE DIMON: I hope so. It's not up to me.
MIKE MAYO: Okay, and then, lastly just a clarification. You're guiding toward $1 billion of realized repurchased
losses per quarter in -JAMIE DIMON: Annually.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: 2011. That's all of 2011.
JAMIE DIMON: Expense.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: That's right.
MIKE MAYO: $250 million a quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
MIKE MAYO: And you expect to continue to build reserves above that $250 million a quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: No. It's a $250 million a quarter of expense. It's not clear we're going to need any additional
reserve. If we do, we'll add some. Pretty quickly. At one point the $3 billion will be excess. There's a good chance
it will be $1 billion expense for four quarters, six quarters, and then that expense will be going against the reserve
which we'll no longer need.
MIKE MAYO: This quarter is really an exception then as far as your reserving?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike, I hope so. We can't promise that.
MIKE MAYO: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: Could be the end of it but there's a chance that things deteriorate in a way we don't understand.
MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.
Page 14 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Remember, we also look at a lot of underlying assumptions, request, aging, vintages, loss rates,
et cetera. If those change, obviously we'll have to change the reserves a little bit.
MIKE MAYO: All right. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. On page 17 of the handout, looks like
there's a discrepancy sort of between the upper and the lower parts of the table with Credit Card and subprime,
early delinquencies continuing to trend down substantially and that's kind of what I would expect given the month
to month numbers that you can get out of Fannie or Freddie or LBS, they all show the delinquencies trending
down. But we don't see that in the upper part of the graph, the home equity or the prime mortgage. Wonder what
accounts for that discrepancy and how long do you think those two patterns diverge?
JAMIE DIMON: We don't know any better than you do, with one comment. Home equity will lag because home
equity by its nature, we find lags the underlying prime and the underlying real estate and lags more than most
other things. We try to account for that in our reserving. We actually adjust for it in how we reserve.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: And I would add, the bottom right, that card delinquency trend, we're guiding you
towards a charge-off rate down 50 basis points for next quarter. Based on what we see near term, that's the
direction we would expect that to head.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then on a separate issue, just can you comment with how comfortable you are
about the robustness of the MERS system. People have raised issues about MERS being both principal and
agent and the separation of -- ?
JAMIE DIMON: We stopped a while back using them for that purpose and so it's not -- I don't think it's relative to
us, to other people, we're not going to comment on all the other underlying things. One of the things you've got to
remember, there are -- we've known there are issues in the mortgage business. And but for the most part by the
time you get to the end of the process, we're not evicting people who deserve to stay in the house.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: That's all from me. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi. Good morning. Maybe just a quick follow-up on
BASEL and more of the impact from a competitive standpoint. You alluded to this at the conference, Jamie.
We've done some work and dug into it. It really seems to be a big difference between on the market risk
calculation between the European banks and the US banks and you can see that in the leverage difference. If the
incremental returns to the foreign banks, if that persists and the incremental returns for the foreign banks on, say,
Fixed Income trading is much higher, can they undercut you? Is there a competitive issue here? How do you think
about the risk weighting calculations and sort of normalizing that?
JAMIE DIMON: It's been this way for a long time and it didn't undercut us.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: Number two, the regulators have said that they're going to try to make sure that they understand
that these things may not have been equally applied in jurisdictions around the world, and it is incumbent upon
them to make sure there's a level playing field because you've noted the same thing that we've all noted. I'm not
going to worry about it particularly much right now.
JAMES MITCHELL: You think it's doable?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
JAMES MITCHELL: And maybe just one question on the repurchase stuff. It's all been kind of lumped in. Can you
give any color on non-agency stuff, I think that's a big question out there, I think some people have gotten -- we've
all gotten I think a little more comfortable around the agency side, but the non-agency side is tougher to get our
hands around.
JAMIE DIMON: I'm only going to say one thing about it, okay?
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Sure.
Page 15 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: In purchased reserves and litigation, unclear exactly how or where it's going to show up but we do
think there's going to be some of that when we make the statement that some of these things may go on for a
while it relates also to that, that while we're burning through the vintages of the GSE, there are other vintages,
more of a time lag than that. And I think it's also important to note that they're fundamentally different. Because a
lot of the private label stuff didn't have the same rules, requirements, disclosures, all that, so they're all different.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: And but loan by loan, it's going to have the same -- some of the same characteristics. If people
are right, you're going to have to make them whole. If people sue just to win they're making a huge mistake.
JAMES MITCHELL: You're already contemplating some of those issues in your current reserving.
JAMIE DIMON: To the extent we can.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: Reserves are -- can't guess and put up numbers but to the extent we can. I think the question is
between the reserves we have is how long losses relating to repurchase, whether it's GSE or private label, and
whether it shows up on the litigation or repurchase reserve, how long they go on for. We don't expect it to be a
blow-up kind of number, we expect it will drag out these losses as these things play themselves out.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay. That's helpful. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Most of my questions have been
asked and answered. But I guess one specific question and one general question. In terms of the commercial
lending and you've noted there's some life in that portfolio for the first time in a couple of years, you also
mentioned there's been some improvement in your sales capacity on the commercial side and the WaMu
franchise. I'm just wondering if those two trends are simultaneous, if you're seeing more demand or more growth
out of the former Washington Mutual business opportunities or are you still just harvesting what you had in the
Chase business?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: I think it's a little bit of both, but more of the latter, which is we've been putting bankers
on the ground and building customer relationships in those states where WaMu did business. We're using the
branch networks there obviously very effectively, and the result of that is, as I said, we added 500 new customers
in the quarter in our middle market business and that's a very positive trends. We would expect that to continue.
JAMIE DIMON: Charge-offs were what in middle market?
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: 89 bps.
JAMIE DIMON: Middle market.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: They were 20% of that.
JAMIE DIMON: Middle market charge-offs were very good. Another thing we should point out, that deposits in this
Commercial Bank are up dramatically. So we actually think the balance sheet of these companies are in very
good shape.
MATT BURNELL: So that implies that we shouldn't necessarily assume that there would be deposit decreases
before we start seeing loan increases in commercial?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't -- I think you might see that because they might use deposits before they take down loans.
I'm just saying we think they're in good -- like Corporate America is in good financial shape. We think middle
market commercial banking in America is in good shape too. They're just waiting for more orders.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, and Jamie, just a big picture question. I just wonder if you have any thoughts or color on
the recent FDIC rule making paper talking about potentially providing preferential treatment for short dated
obligations relative to long dated obligations in a wind down and how that might affect your Fixed Income
business.

Page 16 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I don't think it's going to affect our Fixed Income business at all. I think that all this resolution
activity is it's important to be done right, and I think we'll see a lot of to and from-ing as people figure out what the
right part is. It's going to need some international coordination. It really does need to be done right. The devil's in
the detail. As of yet I don't see it changing Fixed Income at all.
MATT BURNELL: Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB research.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning. Two questions.
JAMIE DIMON: Good morning.
NANCY BUSH: First related to the foreclosure issues and whether there are going to be any extraordinary
expenses associated with that and is the level of expense in that whole activity now going to be higher going
forward?
JAMIE DIMON: I think, Nancy, I think I already mentioned that the way I look at it, we're burying $5 billion of
charge-offs a year, $1 billion of repurchase reserves a year, a lot of REO foreclosure, I forget offhand, but they're
big numbers, that those numbers may bounce up and down and probably may go up a little bit because of this but
I'm not sure they're going to materially change because of this.
NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: And there will be litigation, I'd put it to the side. I don't know how it's all going to be sorted out.
NANCY BUSH: Secondly, Jamie, this is more a question for you. Head of the Boston Fed, Eric Rosengren made
some comments a couple days ago about the need for banks to proactively cut their dividends in times of stress
and that the banking industry had not moved swiftly enough to cut dividends, et cetera, et cetera. Seemed to
indicate an extraordinary amount of hostility toward banks paying dividends. Can you just give us your
commentary on that? You seem to be the only person in the industry who is still confident that you will be able to
raise your dividend in the first quarter of 2011, and could you just give us your thinking on the Fed's attitude right
now?
JAMIE DIMON: I didn't say confident. I said hopeful. Look, people make a good point. The banks going into this
crisis -- not all of them. I don't want to paint them all with the same brush. Some of them kept their dividends
really, really high for a real long period of time when they should have been retaining capital and with real low
capital ratios. I think some of those complaints are legitimate but they're not legitimate for everyone involved.
The new 7% BASEL-III incorporates that as you go below the buffer, the first 2.5% that there will be restrictions
on dividend and comp and personally I think that's reasonable. It's where they set the limits and how they set it
but to me that's -- if you go to -- the lower your number gets, the less you can raise dividends, you have to cut
dividends, you have to cut comp. That's not unreasonable. That's the way a Company should be run. I think that's
probably what he's referring to. Built into the regulatory regime as opposed to not.
NANCY BUSH: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: And the other thing about dividends, it's really there's so much uncertainty, it's clarifying now
around BASEL-III, capital requirements, systemically important firm requirements, resolution. People are being
hesitant on capital. They want to have more clarity around it. The reason we have confidence is we have so much
capital.
NANCY BUSH: Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Carole Berger with Soleil Securities.
CAROLE BERGER, ANALYST, SOLEIL SECURITIES: Good morning.
JAMIE DIMON: Hey, Carole.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: Good morning.

Page 17 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

CAROLE BERGER: I was just curious what you -- Jamie, what do you think it's going to take to get the industry
out of the doghouse and no longer a member of the Evil Empire of this administration and secondarily, is it
possible that you're actually benefiting from the fact that the industry is under so much pressure?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think we're benefiting from the fact that the industry is under pressure. And look, I would
think you're not going to see a big turnaround in sentiment until I think we have a healthy and growing economy.
And I also think you're going to see a lot of rules and regulations, going to take a year or more to go through. It's
just our lot in life. Just got to deal with it.
CAROLE BERGER: Thank you.
OPERATOR: We have no further questions.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you very much. Doug, congratulations on your first time.
DOUGLAS BRAUNSTEIN: Made it through.
OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020101027e6ad000mc

Page 18 of 18 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

