Q4 2008 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
9,574 words
15 January 2009
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
FNDW
English
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase fourth quarter 2008
earnings call. This call is being recorded. Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current
release and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and
uncertainties. Factors that could cause the firms actual results to differ materially from those described in the
forward-looking statements can be found in the firm's filings, which could differ materially from those described in
the forward-looking statements that can be found in the firm's filing with Securities and Exchange Commission.
And you can refer to those filings. These filings are available on both JPMorgan Chase's and Security and
Exchange Commission's website.
JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of
circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statement. Please also note today's
presentation may include references to non-GAAP financial measures and you should refer to the information
contained in the written slides accompanying this presentation for information about the calculation. These slides
are also available on JPMorgan Chase's website. Your line will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now
go live to the presentation. You will hear silence for a moment. Please stand by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jamie
Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Michael Cavanagh. Mr. Cavanagh, please go ahead.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us early
this morning. We simply wanted to get our results out as soon as they were ready, so appreciate your patience in
us moving up the time on this. As usual, we are going to do the presentation, but I'm going to cover it pretty
quickly since there is a lot of material in here, but slow down on certain slides to really make sure I'm very clear
about what is in them. Then we will take some Q&A at the end.
So if you start on the presentation just quickly on the first slide, you see there our full-year profits for 2008 were
$5.6 billion or $1.37 a share, driven down substantially from the prior year by higher credit costs of $23 billion
(corrected by company after call). But really the point here is absorbing that substantial increase was the very
high and strong preprovision profits that you can see, the $73 billion of revenues less the $43 billion of expenses
to give you $30 billion pretax preprovision profitability, which is obviously a big part of the story as well across all
the businesses.
If you go to the next slide, slide 2, I will only point out here that for the quarter $702 million of net income or $0.07
of EPS. Rather than spend time here as usual, it's best to go through this business by business, which I will do.
But first let's just hit slide 3 and let me spend a minute just to flag for you what are the big items that are
embedded in that $0.07 of results. So here on slide 3, fourth-quarter significant items, you see a variety of
negatives and positives which are baked in there. So let's just walk down them from the top. So, first one, $4
billion pretax increase to our loan loss reserves for $2.5 billion after tax. That brings our total loan loss reserves to
$24 billion from $10 billion a year ago. Next item is $2.9 billion pretax of net markdowns on leverage loans and
mortgage exposures, the exposures we have been talking to you about for the last several quarters now, and
that's in the Investment Bank.
The next item, merger-related items. That really reflects a gain related to the net positive impact of a variety of
refinements, the purchase accounting estimates for WaMu, which as we said last quarter would get refined in the
Page 1 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

first quarter given that we did the deal five days before the end of last quarter. So with negative goodwill, that
flows through the income statement as a gain of $1.1 billion after tax.
Next, MSR risk management results of $1.4 billion pretax, $900 million after tax. We just point this out because
it's a bigger-than-usual number and this is the money we made taking some risk in the way we manage and
hedge the change in value of the MSR asset in the mortgage banking part of Retail. Next is $1.1 billion pretax of
private equity write-downs, shown in Corporate. And lastly, as you saw in our 10Q because this happened very
early in the quarter, the $600 million after tax Paymentech gain on sale. With all those items just flagged for you in
the businesses over to the right in which they appear, I won't harp on those again.
So now let's just start with the Investment Bank on slide 4. So let me start you up on the upper right side of the
page in the box. You see net loss for the quarter of $2.4 billion in the Investment Bank. This table is its own sort of
significant items table for the Investment Bank. The leveraged lending markdowns and the mortgage-related
markdowns are flagged for you on the prior page, and I will show you where we stand on those positions in a
second. Credit costs, this is additions to the reserves shown on the prior page, total $4 billion pretax for the firm,
$700 million pretax in the Investment Bank in the quarter. And then the last item is the impact of spread tightening
on structured liabilities, an item we have been talking about over the past several quarters, for $700 million
pretax. Those items come down to, if you tax effect them but not comp effect just to be clear what I did here, that
is a $2.7 billion after tax impact in the quarter where there wasn't a comp accrual is the way I did that.
I'll just make one additional point that typically we see when our spread tightens and we have a reduction in value
of our structured liabilities on the liability side, our counterparty payables on the asset side of the balance sheet
tend to increase in value and have an offset. In this quarter, the spreads didn't behave in the same relationship,
so actually what is known as CVA, the value of our counterparty receivables adjustment, actually was indicative of
a meaningful negative number as well.
So now if you just walk down the bullets in the P&L, aside from those items that are in the box above, you see
Investment Banking fees of $1.4 billion revenue. That's down 17% from a year ago. But you see on the next slide,
slide 5, I'll show you the continued leading market position that we have in corporate finance across all categories
is very substantial. Next line, the $1.7 billion Fixed Income Markets negative revenue for the quarter. If you net
out the DVA, leveraged loan marks and mortgages marks from above, that brings you back to $1.6 billion positive
revenue. And really the story there is weak trading in the credit related products offset, again, by continued very
strong and record performance in rates and currencies and continued strength in commodities and emerging
markets, which has been a story for the last several quarters.
Moving down to Equity Markets, negative revenues of $94 million in total. You net out the impact of spread
tightening and that is $260 positive. That's, again, weak trading, particularly as weak trading results offset in part
by strong client revenues, particularly in the prime services businesses. Next, is credit costs driving the P&L. $765
million, a little bit of charge-offs in the quarter.
But again, the bulk of that is the nearly $700 million addition to loan loss reserves, that brings, you can see in the
table to the left, the allowance to total loans in the Investment Bank of 4.71%, up substantially from last quarter
and last year as you can see for yourself, 1.93% a year ago to 4.71% now. So while credit is degrading we think
we are doing what we should be doing to bolster the loan loss reserves through the P&L. Lastly, expenses down
9%. Lower compensation expense, 63% comp to revenue ratio for the year trued up in the fourth quarter and all
that brings you down to the $2.4 billion bottom-line loss that you see here in the investment bank. Next slide, slide
5, you see the standing of the Investment Bank in the client franchise and you can look for yourself at this and
see how strong the franchise position is and understand why, despite the challenging environment that we are in,
we are very confident about the ability to deliver in the Investment Banking business strong results looking ahead.
Slide 6, don't need to spend much time on, you've seen this before, but when you take the $1.8 billion of
markdowns, now I'm on leveraged lending, it is the $1.8 billion of markdowns takes us down to $12.6 billion of
notional commitments remaining that have total markdowns cumulative of $5.7 billion or 45%. So the carrying
value of $6.9 billion of market exposure is where we currently have our remaining legacy leveraged loans at $0.55
on the dollar on average, but obviously that goes loan by loan, name by name, piece by piece. Slide 7 is then the
last page on the Investment Bank and it's just a recap of, again, what we've shown you last quarter. If you start in
the box in the upper left it's the aggregate exposures we have in these various residential and commercial
mortgage exposures. So last quarter we ended the quarter with $18.6 billion worth of exposure, you see in the
middle column $3.9 billion reduction in the quarter and to end at $14.7 billion.
Obviously the marks came down, that was $1.1 billion of markdowns embedded in the $3.9 billion of exposure
reduction. The bulk of that against the commercial exposure there, where you see $9.3 billion of exposure at the
end of last quarter, total reduction of $1.6 billion and then ending just under $8 billion. So moving past the
Page 2 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Investment Bank, slide 8, I just wanted to show you how we are now for the first quarter including the operating
results of Washington Mutual, particularly the remaining businesses here. And so what I've shown you, and you
will see this in our supplement as well, is the top half is the way JPMorgan Chase was reporting its businesses
that were affected previously, and so at the bottom is how we've revamped some of our disclosures and I'll walk
across that, across the bottom. The first two buckets are going to be the two new segments of disclosure within
Retail Financial Services, so Retail Financial Services will still be one of our six business units.
But we will break those results down into Retail Banking, which is going to be really the branch banking business
as well as business banking and the related loans and business banking and WaMu branches will go into that
business. Moving over, it's Consumer Lending. And then for all the remaining lending activities, aside from
business banking, all the origination and balance activity, so that is home lending, education, auto, et cetera, will
be shown and reported in this business, as well as mortgage production and servicing and, again, related WaMu
activities reported beginning this quarter in there. And then over on the right side of the page, you see Card
Services and Commercial Bank. Disclosure exactly the same as before, but as we get to those businesses you
can look at the supplement and see we are just enhancing some of the disclosure items that are embedded in
these businesses to help you understand what we picked up from WaMu where it's relevant.
Slide 9, I won't spend a lot of time on, but we just breakdown now the key statistics that drive the P&L for both
Retail Banking on the top half of the page and Consumer Lending at the bottom the way we always do. So just at
the top half I'd just point out the healthy underlying trends, we feel good about them. Average deposits of $340
billion, up a bit year-over-year ex-WaMu. And then in the case of WaMu, deposits have been stabilizing and that's
-- have stabilized. That's reflective of the fact that we have been adjusting pricing and have not seen a runoff in
deposits there, which we think is a very good sign and very good for the business. Branch production stats very
strong as well. Obviously at the bottom you see origination activities down and that's driven by, generally
speaking, the tighter underwriting standards that we have been talking about across the various portfolios.
Slide 10. Now the Retail overall P&L. So Retail, top few lines is just a consolidated Retail Financial Services
business, earned $624 million for the quarter. But going to the pieces, second bullet and middle of the page on
the left, it's Retail Banking, $1.040 billion of profit in the quarter, up 85%. Obviously that includes WaMu, with total
revenue of $4.5 billion for the quarter. That billion dollar number, just stare at that for a second. That's a powerful
source of ongoing earnings that we are going to continue to invest in and grow, so we feel very good about the
profit line in this business. Next you go down to Consumer Lending, which I described what that is, and you see
the net income loss of $416 million and that obviously includes, to the negative, the additional higher charge-offs,
credit costs rather, the $3.3 billion, which is higher losses, as well as the addition of loan loss reserves, which
related to the residential real estate portfolio, is $1.6 billion of the $4 billion of additions to reserves running
through that $3.3 billion of credit costs.
And then in the revenue line, non-interest revenues of $2.1 billion includes that positive MSR risk management
results I talked about earlier. Next slide, slide 11. I just wanted before going through the stats on the key
portfolios, just to show you a page that shows you how WaMu balances coming into our credit reporting is going
to have an effect on our credit stats as you try to think about them versus the past and compare them to others.
So I will just quickly run down the page. First row of numbers is Chase. So that's legacy Chase Consumer
Lending, $205 billion of balances, $1.5 billion of charge-offs, 2.98% charge-off rate for the quarter and allowance
against that of $7.4 billion or 3.62% coverage. When you add in the portion of the WaMu balances that we didn't
impair, obviously that's a selection of loans that are performing really well, so that's $58 billion with zero
charge-offs in the quarter. That will obviously grow over time and obviously has the conforming loan loss
allowance that we put against it, but that is at a lower level than Chase.
So when you blend those two together the charge-off rate comes down to 2.32% and coverage to 3.16%. But that
is the row, the blue line, the blue shading, you will see that row for hence forward in our supplemental disclosures.
And we really think that that's the relevant line looking at the credit stats related to our non-credit impaired
Consumer Lending portfolio. We will also show you the total including the impaired portfolio, which you see on the
next line, which is $89 billion, but obviously we marked that so that's doesn't reflect charge-offs in it, so it further
dilutes down the charge-off rates and allowance coverage ratios.
I will quickly hit the next few slides, you have seen these before. On slide 12, the main point, if you look at the
delinquency trends on the upper left, is that delinquencies continue to go higher. If you move over to the upper
right box, you see that dollar charge-offs in our home equity portfolio, which were $770 million in the quarter,
charge-off rate of 2.67%. And that's all-in when you look at just the portion of $95 billion or so that is heritage
JPMorgan, you see that same $770 million drives a charge-off rate against the legacy portfolio of 3.24%, so
obviously the loss trend up more dramatically than when you look at it on a blended basis. And the key point is at
the bottom, last bullet, that we do see continued deterioration. We expect that $770 million of quarterly
Page 3 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

charge-offs could progress towards $1 billion plus or minus per quarter over the next several quarters, hence the
addition to loan loss reserves in the quarter.
Next slide, slide 13, same thing on Prime, $195 million in charge-offs in the quarter, 1.20% charge-off rate, 1.97%
charge-off rate for heritage JPMorgan only and that our quarterly loss outlook, bottom bullet again, could be as
high as $400 million per quarter looking out over the next several quarters. And then on slide 14, subprime
portfolio, $319 million in net charge-offs in the quarter, 8.08% charge-off rate, all-in 9.76% for heritage JPMorgan
and the quarterly losses here could be as high as $375 million to $425 million a quarter over the course of 2009.
Similar guidance here to what we had before. Nonetheless, some additional reserves there. Slide 15 is an
important update, so let me take a second on this. We talked to you when we acquired the WaMu portfolio about
some scenarios of expected lifetime losses. So if you go to the table here, let me just refresh you. The first two
columns, you see "Per Prior Presentation". We had said in our last presentation to you that our base estimate
reflected US peak to trough HPI of down 25%,that reflected, working down the page, $36 billion of remaining
lifetime losses from the beginning of 2008, which then had embedded in it $31 billion, $30.7 billion remaining after
the close. We also told you in the next column over that if we got to a deeper recession, which we approximated
could reflect a 28% peak to trough HPI, that the losses could go up by $6 billion to $42 and $36.7. We are going
to stop talking about from the beginning of the year, so if you just look at that bottom line, $31 billion up to, $30.7
billion up to $36.7 billion.
Now moving over to the right, current outlook, and this is market outlook because we haven't really re-cranked
every number in here, but the Current Market Forecast, Case Schiller, whatever you want to look at,
Economy.com, would suggest that the peak to trough may go to something more like 31%. We've refined or
triangulated what our implied losses could be having had another quarter's worth of work to do, that against that
kind of market outlook, the implied range of where losses could be as high as $32 billion to $36 billion, to give you
a freshened up view on that. So going down the bullets, the next important point is the second bullet. As we've
also refined our accounting on the balance sheet, our current marks reflect $32.5 billion of remainder of lifetime
losses, so that puts us marked and accounted for at the bottom end, but inside that range of where current market
expectation is. Next important point is that we have losses that we've actually taken thus far, it has been very
early, are actually in-line with losses and delinquencies, in-line with what was embedded in our valuation so far.
And then the last point is that how to think about this is that when you would have future additions to loan loss
reserves that would happen if and when the actual delinquencies and losses start to exceed what was embedded
in our initial expectations. So I will leave it that at, you will hear more on Investor Day. It's very early, but we know
it's an important topic so we wanted to just give you a freshened up view on that. Moving on to card services,
slide 16, I will pick up the pace a little bit. Here you have, I will just make the point if you look at the key stats on
the left side of the page, the P&L is all-in. This is what is in our disclosure supplement. This includes the WaMu
portfolio embedded in all the P&L data, revenue, credit cost, expense and profit. But for the key stats in order to
give you all a better trend of what is going on in the larger Chase business, we are going to show you stats
excluding WaMu as well, for the most part those will be the stats that I try to refer to in terms of how trends are
behaving across the business.
Working down some of these bullets here you see the loss for the quarter of $371 million, that was really driven
by the $4 billion of pretax credit costs, up substantially year-over-year, and that is both due to higher credit costs
as well as an addition to loan loss reserves of $1.1 billion in the quarter. You see the charge-off rate circled at the
bottom of the table of 5.29% in the fourth quarter, which is basically in-line with our last outlook, but now looking
ahead we do see that loss rate for 2009 beginning the year at something more like 7% and progressing across
the year through to something more like 8%. Again, that is on a ex-WaMu type of basis, so consistent with the
guidance that we've talked about before. I won't run through the rest of the stats on the page, but you can see
them for yourselves there. Moving on next slide, 17, commercial bank. $480 million of net income is a record
quarterly number for this business.
That would be the case without the inclusion of WaMu, so continued strong results in the business here. That's on
record revenue for a quarter of $1.5 billion, up substantially year on year. And you can just look at the balance
sheet stats, second bullet describes them to you, but the liability balance is up 17%, loan growth up 11%, so that's
$117 billion of loans, $114 billion of liability balances, a very well funded business. And of that loan growth you
see 11% year-over-year, that is -- embedded in that is 37% growth in the government not-for-profit business.
Jamie is going to talk a little bit about the lending we have been doing, but you can see it really here in this
business. And then credit cost of $190 billion, some signs of weakening credit stats here. So a little bit of
increased charge-off, 40 basis points, as well as some loan loss addition here. Treasury and security services on
slide 18. $533 million worth of record profit, up 26% from a year ago.
Page 4 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

That is on record revenue again in both treasury services and worldwide security services in the quarter. $2.2
billion total revenue up 17%. And, again, the big drivers of that is growth in the balance sheet here. So you see
$336 billion of liability balances up 34%. We are seeing tremendous inflows of balances in this kind of
environment, which obviously could abate looking ahead, we will see. And also just looking ahead we are
conscious of a lower rate environment, which could also put some pressures on spreads in this business, as well
as in the commercial bank on their liability balances. Last business, slide 19, asset management. Quarterly profits
of $255 million, down 52% year-over-year, obviously driven by what is going on in assets under management.
So you see assets under management down 5% with $211 billion of market related declines, offset in part by,
continued strong inflows, $61 billion for the quarter, $151 billion of inflows over the past year, but most of that
obviously in liquidity products, lower margin hence the impact on revenues, so quarterly revenues of $1.7 billion,
down 31% year-over-year. Slide 20, corporate/private equity. So just walking down the table I have hit these
numbers before for you. So $1.1 billion of private equity losses to $6.9 billion of carrying value. That translates
into the $700 million after tax loss. Corporate is slightly over $1 billion of profit. Big piece of that is the
Paymentech gain running through that line. And then the last piece of Corporate is merger related items, which
includes the extraordinary gain on WaMu offset in part by the Bear Stearns related and WaMu related merger
expense.
I will just make a comment here, merger-related items this number probably plus or minus $600 million after tax in
2009 blending together WaMu and Bear Stearns, which is consistent with what we've talk about before. And lastly
before I hand it over to Jamie, capital management slide 21. It is important to note that we continue to maintain an
extremely strong capital position. Tier 1 capital $136 billion up from $89 billion a year ago and $112 billion last
quarter. That translates on a regulatory basis into a Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.8% up from 8.4% a year ago and
8.9% last quarter. Looking further down those ratios in the table, I would also just point out very strong tangible
capital ratios aside from the regulatory capital ratios. Just a few more points here in the bottom left side, you really
have got to, I want you to realize we are talking Tier 1 capital under a BASEL I regime. And while we are not on it
yet, we are working towards it and understand that BASEL II would be higher for us if we reported on that basis.
Second point is that we really maintain this capital strength while managing the other part of balance sheet
strength, which is the credit reserve side. So that is up to $24 billion, as I said earlier, from $10 billion of one year
ago. And all that ran through the P&L, so to maintain a capital account the way we did goes back to the wide
pretax margins we have pre-provision. And then lastly wanted to flag for people, because there has been a lot of
concern around the off-balance sheet accounting rule changes, so FAS 140 and FIN 46R. So while these aren't
yet released, we put a little table here in the bottom right so you can look at it yourself to give you an estimate of
what it might mean to us and the point for us is that we look at this all the time, and on a forward basis are
managing capital with this stuff in mind.
And you see we foot to the 10Q balances that a lot of people see of what is off balance sheet, walk that across to
what the GAAP asset impact might be, these are our best estimates, and then translate that into RWA under
BASEL I. So it could be something like 80 basis points, maybe plus or minus, but obviously that will depend on
what the final rules actually look like and when they get implemented. With that let me hand it off to Jamie to fill in
any outlook comments that I missed.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you very much. I just have a few
comments then we will open up to questions. On the Investment Bank I think there are two things I'd like to talk
about. One is the results on the client side have really been exceptional. The market share gains. I think it is true
on investment banking and on trading. We see a lot more client flow and we think we are going to do very well
servicing investor and corporate clients. We get asked a lot about Bear Stearns and the impact of Bear Stearns. I
hesitate to say this a little bit. We still expect to get $1 billion of earnings from Bear Stearns late in '09,
predominately prime brokerage is doing well and energy and commodities, but it also helped and aided our
business in equities, fixed income and really across the board we got some terrific bankers in the deal.
However, it is hard to separate out positions that we inherited that we decided to keep or didn't hedge right or
something like that. But when we took on Bear, we did take on a lot more risky assets and we've got them down
substantially. We probably lost several billion dollars more than we would have in the year had we not done Bear.
Again, it's hard to really separate what was our responsibility and what we inherited, because we could have sold
some of the things we inherited. The retail business, we are working hard in WaMu. We are still very excited
about it. We think this is still approximately what we told you last time what it is going to do for this company. We
are very excited about the ability to build small business, private banking, asset management and middle market
on top of the retail branch platform there. We hope to consolidate all of WaMu systems by the end of the year.
That's the point where we get very comfortable about how we can grow it. We will be changing the brand in
California at the end of March, because we think it is important to start using the new name in California.
Page 5 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

You might have saw yesterday that we closed the [broker channel] business, which we are, obviously, a very big
player and we still think we are going to get very good at it. Though we don't know the real ongoing profitability of
all the mortgage business, we did close the remaining broker business that we did, mostly in the prime side, and
we just think that's a smart thing to do, because a lot of the business that came through that side was just not our
kind of quality. Card Services, Mike gave you some numbers where losses will be higher. Now we don't totally
see that yet. But we are just kind of assuming that unemployment is going to go up and, obviously, that's going to
dry Card Services. We also owe you, we are not going to do it now, some comments on the new UDAP. So when
I think we have Investor Day about what that might mean for the business and how we might adopt a change for
UDAP.
Suffice to say here, it probably will drive profits lower and reduce the amount of credit that you can make
availability and the way you can make it available to consumers, but we think we can adjust to it over time in a
fairly reasonable way. Commercial Bank, all I can say is just really great results. While we adding to reserves,
NPLs and credit losses haven't gone up that much, they have to go up. You cannot have an environment like this
where you don't see a lot of stress and strain in middle market, so we do expect loss to go up there. Treasury and
Security Services kind of gang busters. I think one of the important things there to keep in mind is we also didn't
have any of the pitfalls. We feel really good how we run that business. Asset Management, results down,
obviously, because assets under management are down. But I think the important thing here also is we have
grown the business, more bankers, more net inflows and we also stayed away from a lot of the pitfalls that have
beset some of the folks in that business.
Mike mentioned the balance sheet. We think we are in very good shape. I should add that we did add in the back,
and you see in the supplement, that our Investment portfolios, the parent, have gone from $116 billion to over
$160 billion, as we try to invest on this excess liquidity we have, et cetera. So the credit kind of drives some of
those ratios down, but is completely discretion on our part how we use that. In the short run, it drives slightly
higher income in Corporate as we buy some of those portfolios I want to mention two other things that are
important, really kind of one other thing, which is, we started this Way Forward campaign about all the things that
JPMorgan is doing to help the system, to help our clients, the small business, middle market, investment banking,
and there is going to be a lot more coming about that. I think we did at the forefront of mortgage modifications.
We have some more information about that coming up in a day or so, because we think there are more things we
can do to help keep people in their homes and do a better job for the consumer.
In the press release we announced also that in the quarter we extended new credit of over $100 billion, because
there have been a lot of questions out there about whether banks are making loans. I think we are speaking for
lots of banks here, people are out making loans. This year, this quarter alone, I think we did four million new credit
cards. So we extended credit card loans, corporate loans, middle market loans. We bought $1.4 billion bond issue
when no one else would bid on it from Illinois. So we are in business. So regarding businesses, the loan demand
as actually dropping rather dramatically. We've also in the interbank market we have had on average $40 billion
or $50 billion out in the interbank market. That is also a form of lending. So people ask are banks lending to each
other. Well, I think some are and trying to help the system that way.
And all of this is helped by the TARP. So we think it is a valid question for people to ask what have you done with
the TARP money. We do say it is hard to separate exactly what is TARP money, because remember we are
making loans all the time. But we are trying to follow the intent and spirit of TARP, which is to help the economy of
the United States recover and make sure we are financing people. We even have done some major large
syndicated leverage finance loans and I'll mention two, Inbev and Mars, but there are several others. So we are
still in business. Obviously the cost of money is higher for clients and people have tightened up some of the
underwriting standards, but we are still in business. We are still trying to the best we can both for our
shareholders and the country. So we will stop there and open for questions. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your first question comes from Glenn Schorr with UBS.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Jay and Mike, curious to get your thoughts, a lot of talk going back and forth
on the loan remodification laws and the potential principal reductions. So you've done a lot of loan remod on your
own, but I don't know if there's been a lot of principal reduction involved. Just, thoughts for you guys but really for
the industry in general on what potential impact that could have on both acceleration of losses, but also just the
state of the securitization markets.
JAMIE DIMON: So we are really trying to figure that out, and all I'm going to say at this point is, it's legislation, we
don't know if it's going to get passed or not get passed. I do think it could have a pretty chilling effect on consumer
lending in general, and drive up bankruptcies in general if people go to the bankruptcy courts more, but you really
have to wait until the specific things come out to see what the GSEs do, the FHA, and all the real specifics
Page 6 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

around, so we're kind of reserving final judgment on how that would work. In the meantime, we're going forward
with what we think is a very good program to modify mortgages, sometimes they include principal reduction. But
remember, the really important thing for consumers is much more affordability and cashflows. Principal is an
artificial concept when you talk about cash over a long period of time, so if people can afford a home, that's what
you really want to do.
It's also very important in mortgage modification to reunderwrite, to do real income verification, real appraisals to
make sure the people can and want to live there and do the second time around maybe what wasn't done so well
what wasn't done the first time around.
GLENN SCHORR: What kind of time frame, let's say we have some sort of new mantra going forward or
everybody a adapted JPMorgan's efforts. Doing it one at a time like this, seems difficult, whether you go direct or
through a bankruptcy judge, what kind of time frame can we get there, whatever there means?
JAMIE DIMON: Listen I think most of the companies are doing it, have staffed up a lot to be able to handle these
kind of things, in any event, you're going to do it one by one, that is the right way to do it. It's a lot of work. But
obviously when the home prices stabilize, foreclosure will go down a little bit. We will get through it.
GLENN SCHORR: Mike, the numbers question, managers margin up like 50 basis points. Manager's income like
80% of revenues, obviously a weak revenue quarter, most of it comes on the liability side, you mentioned in the
remarks a little bit but at what point do lower interest rates start to turn that around and start to actually be a
hindrance?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It's tough to say, Glenn, we are trying to manage our way through that as we speak. The
best visibility we have would be that margin ex-what goes on in the Investment Bank I hope would be stable
percentage-wise looking ahead. But we have to see how we do managing to operate around this very low interest
rate environment.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay, and I can't help but ask, you grew the corporate portfolios, what are you buying there? I
did notice a bunch of CLO's being purchased,I'm assuming that's part of it.
JAMIE DIMON: Remember we got a lot of new deposits in. We bought a lot of mortgages, doing CLO's a little bit
of other credit related product. You're going to see us do that. We are getting enormous spreads. We think some
of them are very safe and sound. We want to make money in that portfolio but we're being cautious about how we
do it. We don't want to do it all at once, not making a big bet for the company.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Well thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John McDonald at Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: A couple of questions in card. The outlook for the first
quarter, almost a 200 basis point increase and the net charge-offs in your outlook, are you seeing that in the
delinquencies yet, did you see a sharp acceleration in December in the delinquencies?
JAMIE DIMON: We did not see a sharp increase in delinquencies in December. I think I mentioned that we don't
have full visibility of why we go to 7%. That's a guess that the economy is worse and unemployment is going to hit
the 7 or 8.5% number. We're just saying if that happens, unemployment credit card loss will go up. We don't know
for a fact that's going to happen.
JOHN MCDONALD: So it's more driven by your unemployment outlook?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: In the card business as well, does margin get any benefit from the improvement spreads
over the past couple of weeks, what would be your outlook on the card margin?
JAMIE DIMON: The answer, it does. We're really happy that it had a big negative in the third quarter, and a little
bit of recovery in the fourth quarter, I think we got the number that costs, at one point costing $100 million a
month, that's disappearing, but it doesn't benefit us next year just the extra cost disappears. Some of the cost by
the way ends up as a benefit in Corporate. We get the benefit on the other side in the other place in the company.
JOHN MCDONALD: In terms of the outlook on consumer balances, card balances, consumers delevering, you
worry about adverse selection. Do you expect to grow card balances in this environment?
Page 7 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: John, it's very hard to tell because what we see is the consumer is spending less, so card spend
was down a fairly dramatic 8% in the fourth quarter, payments are way down too, so balances, we don't know
how the two are going to intercept. What we do know and I believe is that our share is going up. Remember we
are very prime. We think we are in the more secure part of the segment, and we've added a lot of clients. So we
continue to market, it's just very hard to tell what is going to happen to balances next year.
JOHN MCDONALD: Last question, WaMu if you put together everything you talked about, did you get $0.10 as
you expected this quarter, contribution from WaMu in your estimate?
JAMIE DIMON: I think ex the extraordinary gain, it was a little better than $0.10.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Tracked what we talked about for next year.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Great.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: $0.50 type of number.
JOHN MCDONALD: $0.50 for this year. Okay, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: Still our outlook there.
JOHN MCDONALD: Great. No change on the Bear, Jamie said.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Think about it as it takes time to ramp up. We talked about the fourth quarter exit rate of
'09 being incremental profitability of about $1 billion after tax.
JOHN MCDONALD: Is there a positive contribution to overall JPMorgan this quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm not going to talk about the quarter specifically, but it's hard to separate, we took on Bear, we
consolidated risk positions. We obviously started making decisions what to buy, what to sell, what to hedge, not to
hedge. But it did add a lot of risk positions to our company in areas we already had risk, like the SPO, securitized
product, leverage loan, some credit, and it did cost us net net, however you look at it, several billion dollars this
year.
On that several billion, unlike other things, didn't have the offset of comp because we are not punishing everyone
in the Investment Bank for the fact that they are close to our Investment Bank. I think our people in the Investment
Bank did an exceptional job similarly, the people of Bear, the systems of Bear and trying to manage and derisk in
what turned out to be a terrible environment.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. You talked quite a bit about the loan
growth that you've been generating, and gave some examples, could you give us a sense as to, generally
speaking, how much of the growth is line extension on preexisting commitments versus new relationships?
JAMIE DIMON: We are not going to do that right now but we're going to give more information about new credit,
renewals of credit. But renewals of credit are credit. I don't want to get in to the gain to act like we are obligated to
renew credit all the time. But we are going to do that, and the reason we said 100 plus is because we want to
make sure we get the right numbers out there. But you will see us give some numbers like that. Middle market,
large corporate, even our investment portfolio, I mentioned we added $50 or $60 billion, that is extending credit
too. We probably bought more mortgage securities than the government did this quarter. Bit of an exaggeration
but.
BETSY GRASECK: Right. Can you give us your updated thoughts on how you're thinking about the dividend
given the outlook for a continued difficult environment?
JAMIE DIMON: We never were exuberant raising the dividend, and this company has enormous earnings power,
and we feel an obligation to pay the dividend. We feel pretty good about it. We are not that concerned about it.
BETSY GRASECK: Is there anything, with regard to how you are thinking about the dividend relative to having
the TARP, and how you think through returning TARP money versus paying the dividend debit, is that a part of
the thought process?
Page 8 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: One is we feel one is obligation to the shareholders that you tell them you raise the dividend, you
intend to pay it. Should be consistent and steady, we never raised it to exorbitant numbers, so it wasn't something
was a yoke around our necks. So the TARP is a 3 to 5 year preferred or something like that. Not directly
comparable and we eventually will repay the TARP, and move on when we get through all of. This now you can't
repay the TARP, part of the agreement is that it wasn't repayable without being replaced. You can't replace that
type of thing in today's market.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks
OPERATOR: Next question from Mike Mayo.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: How are you doing?
JAMIE DIMON: Good.
MIKE MAYO: Can you talk about the Investment Bank strategy, are you looking to kind of contract, maintain or
expand in absolute terms and relative to peer. Are you looking for big market share and it looks like our
compensation is down a little bit year-over-year, are you willing to pay a little bit more to get better talent and get
better share?
JAMIE DIMON: Part of the compensation does relate to what I mentioned about Bear Stearns. We hope to gain
share. But there will always be tough competitors in the investment banking business. The investor side trading,
client trading, we have it's hard to tell we gained share, because if you look at surveys and Greenwich and other
things, anecdotally, it looks like we have an equity cash trading, so we hope to gain share there, and the
investment banking side, covering corporate clients, ECM, DCM, M&A, stuff like that, we gained share. This is a
tough business. We don't assume that it will be easy going forward. We will keep investing in the parts of the
business we think will grow. Obviously there are parts of the business which change, and you disinvest a little bit,
and that will be in areas you know about. Partially securitized products, Some structured products et cetera,
where you're not going to have the volumes you had before.
MIKE MAYO: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Meredith Whitney with Oppenheimer.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Good morning. I had a couple of clarification questions and
I wanted to ask a bigger question, to make sure I'm clear, your unemployment expectation now is 7.5 to 8%?
JAMIE DIMON: I mentioned that relative to card. I think it's fair to say that in my opinion is the minimum you are
going to see. That's an opinion. That's not built in to every number we do. That's just an opinion.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Do you have a number like you clearly went through in terms of your severity
expectations, do you have a number embedded generally in your assumptions.
JAMIE DIMON: When it comes to mortgages and stuff?
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Loss reserves, yeah.
JAMIE DIMON: The answer, loss reserves is a different thing which is looking forward and projecting forward, and
yes we do assume some deterioration, which assumes higher in general home prices going down and
unemployment going up. But Meredith, it is not a direct correlation. I agree with you, it will drive those things,
these are just estimates and models. Common sense tells you it's going to get worse and we should be prepared
for that.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: In terms of my expectations and your expectations, in terms of my model I wanted to
clarify that. Getting back to expenses and highlighting stuff you talked about with the investment bank, given the
fact that it is a large percentage of our overall cost structure and the environment is so different and the business
is going in a different direction, how do you resize the business and a larger question which is, you guys are the
poster child, children for realigning so many businesses, integrating so many businesses, how long do you
imagine the restructuring of the core expense structure within the banking industry takes, and that's important to
relending of course and I have a last question after that, please.
JAMIE DIMON: Investment bank, obviously a lot of the change you see taking place if in the Investment Bank, I
think Steve Black and Bill Winters have been pretty aggressive in resizing and responding to the environment,
what we don't want to do is overreact and not do a good job servicing clients. Job one is to make sure we are in
Page 9 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

the market, servicing the client, trading, calling in clients, so we are not going to have an overreaction on that. We
don't think the businesses are going to go away. We think some are. The way you look at it, and I don't have the
head count numbers in front of me. When we added Bear Stearns we added 6000 people to the IB Net, I think the
head count looking forward is going to be more like as if you didn't add Bear Stearns at all. So we've probably
eliminated somehow, on all the things we do, another 6,000 jobs. Now that will also come down during the course
of the year as the plans in place are implemented.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: That sounds consistent with what you said before. Lastly, given change, given the fact
that obviously everyone is looking to monetize and get as much capital to the core franchise as possible, do you
have additional or spare parts divestitures and conversely, do you have appetite for spare parts acquisitions,
meaning a prime broker that comes available, I'm trying out situations, can you comment on that please.
JAMIE DIMON: Acquisitions, we would never say never. Obviously we are busy with Bear Stearns and WaMu,
both which we think are important to do and do right. The hurdle rate would have to be really high to do an
acquisition. The price would have to be really good. The ability to execute unquestionable and the business logic
unquestionable. We are not out there looking, if that happens, obviously we will think about it over time. And
second one, divestitures, there's nothing on the table we plan to divest.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Thank you.
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your next question comes from Nancy Bush, with NAB Research, LLC.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH, LLC: Good morning, guys.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Hey Nancy.
NANCY BUSH: Mike you spoke about bringing down deposit costs in the WaMu franchise, can you just tell us
how generally you are doing that? Are you doing it by project or by region and what has the reaction been?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: I think we will get deeper in to it in terms of investor day. But as you know the need to
hold deposits was causing WaMu to be a price leader on time deposits but really across the board. As we
modeled the deal, as Charlie and team are executing we are looking to just bring pricing state by state, region by
region, into better line with the way we would do it in Chase markets. In terms of company's overall cost to
money. With a view to the local market conditions. Anywhere state by state we both look at overall cost of money
to the company together with franchise value. When we price things.
JAMIE DIMON: We are attracting hot money. We don't need it.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Despite that, we are doing an okay job keeping total balances flat to where they were
with turn away from fast money.
NANCY BUSH: Can you just give us your very rough impression in the quarter of whether the price the pricing
reductions at WaMu I mean, how much they kicked in to NIM or took away from NIM?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: I'm going to point you to on the retail slide see it's embedded in here but it's part of the
impact of overall deposit margin in the retail business, which stayed around the 0 to 3% type of level.
JAMIE DIMON: Within what we kind of expected. We knew were going to do some of that, a lot of changes in the
rate curve, and deposit cost, but net net is probably a wash.
NANCY BUSH: Thank you.
OPERATOR: At this time, there is are no further questions on comments in the queue.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you very much everybody. Look forward to talking to you next quarter. Take care, bye.
OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call, you may now disconnect.
EDITOR: COMPANY DISCLAIMER
The information contained in this transcript is current only as of the date the presentation was made. JPMorgan
Chase does not undertake to update any information contained in this presentation to reflect the impact of
circumstances or events that may arise after the date of this presentation. Accordingly, the information contained
Page 10 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

in this presentation may be superseded by more current information. Please refer to JPMorgan Chase's more
current filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available elsewhere on this website.
1
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020090122e51f000m9

Page 11 of 11 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

