Q4 2011 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
16,384 words
13 January 2012
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's fourth-quarter 2011 earnings
conference call. This call is being recorded. Your lines will be muted throughout the duration of the conference.
We will now go to the live presentation. Please stand by. At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan
Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Doug Braunstein. Mr. Braunstein, please
go ahead.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator. I'm going to take you through the
earnings presentation that is available on our website. We will take questions after we walk through the
presentation; and remember the disclaimer in the back of the presentation.
So if you turn to page 1, for the quarter we generated net income of $3.7 billion, $0.90 per share on revenues of
$22.2 billion. Return on tangible common equity for the quarter was 11%.
For the full year, we generated record net income of $19 billion; that is up 9% over last year. $4.48 per share,
which was also a record per share, on revenues of a little under $100 billion. Return on tangible common equity
for the year was approximately 15%.
There are a few significant items in the quarter. We highlight them up front. I'm going to discuss each of them in
the businesses.
So as you see, we ended the quarter on a Tier 1 Common basis of $123 billion, strong Basel I/Basel III ratios of
10% and 7.9%, respectively. For the full year we increased our Basel III ratio by approximately 90 basis points,
and that is after the repurchase of $9 billion of our stock this year.
As we noted last quarter, we continue to see year-on-year loan growth across many of the businesses. Total loan
balances across the Company were up $31 billion year-on-year. And if you exclude the impact of the $30 billion in
runoff in our home lending portfolio, predominantly WaMu-related, the year-over-year growth is $60 billion with
the run rate of 9% year-over-year.
Just to highlight some of the specifics, small business loans were up 52%; middle market loans up 17%; trade
finance loans up 73%. We also saw our Card outstanding growth this quarter and solid mortgage originations.
Deposit growth also continued in the quarter.
Liability balances ended the year at $1.1 trillion. That is up $200 billion or 21% year-on-year.
I have covered much of the data on page 2 and 3, so if you turn right to the Investment Bank on page 4, you see
circled net income of $720 million. That is on revenue of $4.4 billion. We highlighted on page 1, the first significant
item impacted the IB results this quarter; that is a $570 million DVA loss on a pretax basis. That reduced our
reported EPS for the quarter by $0.09 a share.
That is largely the result of the Firm's tightening credit spreads this quarter. We have consistently said we don't
consider these gains or losses to be part of the underlying operating performance of the business. But when it is
material to the results, we are going to identify that number as a significant item.
Page 1 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

If you exclude DVA, revenue for the IB in the quarter was $4.9 billion. That is up 10% quarter-on-quarter. It is still
down 21% year-on-year. Net income, ex-DVA, was $1.1 billion this quarter.
So if you go into the particulars, IB fees of $1.1 billion this quarter are down almost 40% year-on-year; up
modestly quarter-on quarter, primarily driven by the low industry-wide volumes that we talked about last quarter.
We did maintain our number-one ranking for global IB fees this year. We also generated record loan syndication
fees this year, which is again part of that loan story we talked about. You can find league table results in the back,
in the appendix on page 20.
Fixed Income Markets, revenues of $2.6 billion, ex-DVA. That is down 9% year-on-year, 6% quarter-on-quarter.
Here we continued to see solid client revenue across most of our products in Fixed Income.
Equity Markets revenue was $0.8 billion. That is ex-DVA, down 26% year-on-year, 23% quarter-on-quarter. That
has primarily been driven by lower market volume.
I would add we had some consistent results again this quarter in our prime services business. So the volume
impact was largely in our cash and our derivatives business.
We recognized negative revenues of $31 million in the Credit Portfolio, largely driven by the DVA losses. That is
offset by the NII on fees in retained loans. And then we had a small net CVA gain this quarter.
Credit costs in the quarter of $272 million, that largely reflected some name-specific charge-offs.
And then on the expense side you see $3 billion in expenses, down a little under 30% year-on-year. That is driven
by lower comp and lower non-comp expenses.
The comp-to-revenue ratio for the year we reported was 34%. If you exclude DVA the comp-to-revenue ratio was
36%; and that is largely at the lower end of our prior guidance of 35% to 40% for the year.
So, with that, I'm going to actually skip page 5 as we'll drill down into the specifics of CBB on page 6. You see
circled net income of $800 million; that is down 16% year-on-year. Revenues of $4.3 billion.
Revenues are down $365 million quarter-on-quarter. That largely reflects the impact of Durbin this quarter.
Year-on-year, revenues are down 2%, and that was an increase in deposit-related fees that partially offset the
impact of Durbin this quarter.
We continue to see very positive growth in a number of the fundamental measures we keep track of for the
business year-on-year. Total deposits were up $25 billion; 260 new branch builds during the course of 2011. 246
CPC, Chase Private Client, branches opened this year. And we added 3,800 new sales staff -- bankers,
salesmen, mortgage brokers -- during the course of the year.
Expenses up 6% year on year, primarily driven by that investment spend I just talked about. Also, I want to
remind you the impact of both the rate environment and the regulatory environment on 2012 earnings. We expect
spread compression likely to have a negative impact on earnings next year of about $400 million, plus or minus,
as deposit margins are going to continue to decline in 2012. On the Durbin Amendment, we have said it will
reduce earnings by $600 million, plus or minus, on an annualized basis in the course of 2012.
If you skip -- move to page 7, Mortgage Production and Servicing, a loss for the business at $260 million this
quarter; and that compares to net income of $330 million in the prior year. Production-related revenues, that is at
the top of the page, and if you exclude repurchases was $1.1 billion; that is down 20% year-on-year.
Originations of $39 billion are down 24% year-on-year, but up actually slightly quarter-on-quarter. We
experienced some lower margin in that business. I would also add activity this quarter was largely driven by
refinancing.
Repurchase losses in the quarter you see were $390 million. That is slightly higher in the quarter based on
acceleration of the timing of certain claims with the Agencies. We do continue to expect for next year $350 million,
plus or minus, per quarter in repurchase losses, and that is largely in line with our prior guidance.
I will remind everyone, our total repurchase reserves remain at $3.6 billion; $3.2 billion in this division.
Servicing-related revenue, in the middle of the page, of $1.1 billion is down 9% year on year. That is largely a
decline in our service portfolio, and that was partially offset by a reduction in the amortization of the MSR asset.
Page 2 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Servicing expense you see in the middle, $925 million in the quarter. It remains very elevated as a function of
default costs, which represent about 75% of that total number. We would expect that number to remain high
certainly through the first half of 2012.
We did record an MSR risk-management loss of a little under $400 million this quarter, $377 million. The results
really are a combination of reduction of the MSR asset of $830 million; that is based on valuation adjustments and
rate. And that was offset by a $460 million gain from hedging the asset. For those interested in the MSR, I'd point
you to a detail in the financial supplement in the footnotes.
Page 8, Real Estate Portfolios. A modest net loss in the quarter. That compared to a net loss of a little over $800
million in the prior year. Revenues, same story as we have been talking about; down 20% year-on-year,
consistent with the reduction in the NII from the portfolio runoff, and as we said was $700 million a year, and
remember balances were down $30 billion year-on-year.
We'd expect to see balances continue to decline somewhere in the 10% to 15% range again in 2012. And that
would have the result of reducing NII next year by $500 million plus or minus. But remember, that reduction will
also free up capital at the Company level.
Expenses up 5% year on year, and that continues to be consistent with the overall increase in servicing costs that
I talked about in mortgage servicing.
I want to cover Credit on page 9, so if you turn to 9 you see circled net charge-offs at $877 million. That is again a
marginal improvement versus the prior quarter.
We experienced improvement this quarter in our early-stage delinquencies. You can see those charts on page 19
in the appendix. We saw the improvement both in our NCI and our PCI portfolios.
Again, we have experienced a consistent improving level of net charge-offs for several quarters in the NCI
portfolio. So the result of those factors is a net release of $230 million in our home lending portfolio, and there are
two components to that reserve change.
First, in NCI, we took a $1 billion reduction in reserves, primarily due to the improvement in our outlook for losses,
particularly in home equity and subprime. And reminder now, current reserve levels for the portfolio are at $8.7
billion.
The PCI portfolio we actually added $770 million to reserves. And that, remember, is a lifetime loss estimate.
While we have seen improvement in the delinquencies in the portfolio, they weren't as significant as we'd
expected in our lifetime loss estimates, primarily driven by default frequencies relative to modeled expectations.
So we therefore increased reserves. Reserves in the portfolio now are $5.7 billion.
But if you step back from all of this, given the improvement in credit performance, you will see over on the right
we are revising our quarterly loss guidance to $900 million, plus or minus. That is down from the $1.2 billion we
had in the prior quarter, and that is for 2012.
If you turn to page 10, Card Services & Auto, circled consolidated net income for the business of $1.1 billion. That
is on revenues of $4.8 billion.
We continue to see the trend that we've talked about all year. Credit costs down again this quarter. You see the
details on the Chase portfolio at the bottom of the page.
3.93% net charge-off rate; that is again below our through-the-cycle target. 30-plus-day delinquencies declined to
2.54%; that is 112 basis points below the prior year.
Just a quick note here, we are going to report Chase and WaMu portfolios as a single portfolio in 2012. For the
combined portfolio, which ended 2011 at a net charge-off rate of 4.33%, we would expect Q1 rate to be 4.50%
plus or minus. It tends to be slightly elevated versus the year-end, just literally as a function of seasonality. But
the absolute numbers should be consistent.
As we highlighted on page 1, we did release $500 million in loan loss reserves this quarter in our Card business.
If you add that to the home lending actions, the combined release across Consumer was $730 million. That had a
positive impact on EPS of $0.11 a share.
Back to Card, though, total reserves in Card will end the year at $7 billion. That is 5.3% of our outstandings.
Page 3 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

The final note I would say on Card is, on a sales volume basis, it continued to be very solid results for the Chase
portfolio, up 9% year-on-year, 14% if you exclude the impact of the Kohl's portfolio sale that we had. And part of
these increases are really being driven by our new products -- Sapphire, Freedom, Ink -- where sales growth is
actually higher than the average.
The result of all of that is we continue to think we picked up close to 180 basis points of market share in the Visa
and the MasterCard systems.
Page 11, the Commercial Bank. You see circled net income of $640 million. That's on record revenues of $1.7
billion. Full-year revenues of $6.4 billion, $2.4 billion in net income, are both record performance for the business.
The revenue growth and the earnings continue to be driven by that same story of loan growth and liability
balances. Six consecutive quarters of loan growth balances. You see EOP balances of $112 billion circled; that is
up 13%.
Middle Market balances continued strong growth. They are up 17% year-on-year. That is the seventh consecutive
quarter of growth.
We also had record liability balances just slightly under $200 billion, up 35% or $52 billion year-on-year. So our
customers are very well capitalized today.
And then the overhead ratio continues to be very strong. Credit story continues to be strong. The result is really
excellent performance in our Commercial Bank this year.
Treasury & Securities Services on page 12. Our revenues are up 6% year-on-year. In part, we had stronger
growth in our TS business. But you do see circled net income down 18% quarter-on-quarter of $250 million, really
driven by two factors.
We had some expense increases this quarter, driven by exiting some unprofitable business we had. Also, credit
costs increased this quarter; and that is related to some of those name-specific charge-offs that I talked about in
the Investment Bank; we have a share of credit expenses between those two businesses.
We did, though, continue to see some real favorable trends in the quarter for the business. Liability balances up
42%, over $100 billion. I talked about trade loans up front.
Then international revenue growth, which is a big, strategic push for us, grew 16% year-on-year. For the year,
international represented 55% of the total revenues for this business; that is up from 49% last year, so very good
performance there.
Asset Management on page 13, they had a weaker quarter and that was largely driven by market conditions.
Revenues at $2.3 billion are down 13% year-on-year, relatively flat quarter-on-quarter. But the fourth quarter
tends to be higher than normal, and we had lower performance fees this quarter.
For the year, however, we did generate $9.5 billion of revenue, and that was a record revenue number for this
business. It does reflect the positive long-term flows that we have seen throughout the year and a little better
markets on average than 2010.
It was our 11th consecutive quarter of positive long-term flows. We had $53 billion for the year. We also did
experience some significant inflows in our liquidity products this quarter.
Expenses, while down year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter for this quarter, were up 15% for the full year. We
added 1,000 people to this business, 700 of which are front office personnel -- bankers, salespeople, brokers.
While we expect that to improve future performance, it clearly had a depressing impact on margins this quarter.
Page 14, Private Equity and Corporate. Private Equity experienced a loss of $90 million. That is primarily due to
market valuations and a lack of monetization opportunities in the quarter.
Corporate, you see net income of a little over $300 million. That includes $528 million of an increase in a litigation
reserve. That was one of our significant items that reduced EPS $0.08 a share this quarter. The increase in
reserves was predominantly for mortgage-related matters.
Then you see to the right we do expect Corporate excluding Private Equity and significant items to be a $200
million plus or minus net income number each quarter in 2012. That is really a result of the positioning of the
portfolio as well as some of the RWA implications of Basel III and what we can hold in the portfolio.
Page 4 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

I believe I have covered all the items on pages 15 and 16. So with that, operator, if you wouldn't mind, why don't
you open it up for questions?
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Yes. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit
about managing expenses in a tough environment. If the revenue environment remains tough, do you have plans
to push expenses down company-wide in 2012?
And then maybe also just in the Investment Bank, do you see the comp ratio moving lower amid all the regulatory
changes and the industry pullback? Or do you expect 35% to 40% again in 2012? Thanks.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Want to give it a shot and I will (technical
difficulty).
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes. On the expense front, I think we are constantly working to try and manage the
expenses. As you saw, expenses, John, were down in the quarter versus year-over-year. We are going to
continue to manage it, and that is what we are expecting of all of our businesses.
On the comp-to-revenue side in the Investment Bank, we think we paid appropriately, given the performance of
the Investment Bank. And I think we are going to expect it to return at appropriate levels based on that payout.
But we are going to constantly be aware of what is going on in the market. So we will see where the markets end
for 2011 for everyone.
JAMIE DIMON: We basically expect our overhead -- i.e., non-IB comp -- to be about flat next year. Remember
that's after a lot of investments too, so it is not -- I think we have pretty good expense control.
The other thing I want to say about IB comp -- no, I think you will see it stay around those numbers, but there is
an awful lot of pressure. We are getting an awful lot of pressure for our bankers and traders to increase our
payout ratio to about what newspapers and media have, which is a little bit higher.
JOHN MCDONALD: The thing that you expect to be flat next year, Jamie, is your core overhead SG&A-type
ex-litigation reserves?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, yes, so if you look at the overhead -- which I forgot, it was like almost $50 billion a year -and that is ex-IB comp and things, if we have a litigation or something like that, to be essentially flat. So that's -the way you should think about that is we're making huge investments. And if we have opportunities to market or
grow stuff, we change it all the time.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then on the net interest margin, Doug, it was up a bit this quarter. Looks like maybe
some of the trading funding cost moved lower. Can you just talk about what drove that? And what kind of outlook
do you have for the NIM in 2012?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, in NIM, John, it was really -- for the quarter, it was really a mix issue in part. We had
lower cash. We had some redeployment in Treasury, and we also had some lower rates on the deposit
businesses. So that is what we saw.
I would say for the outlook for the first quarter, we expect to see some downward pressure on NIM in the first
quarter. That will be as we continue this mix in our portfolio on the loan side, greater growth on the wholesale
side, and some runoff in the consumer side. We will also see a little lower yielding loans that we add on.
And the other piece I would say is we got a lower yield in investment securities -- I think expected in this rate
environment.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Just as a follow-up, what kind of regulatory event is necessary for you to be able to
redeem the $10 billion in TruPS that you have talked about? And when do you anticipate that might happen?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Well, we talked about that. I think clarification on the Basel III rules, we would expect will
be the regulatory event. We were hopeful that that will happen sometime in the first quarter, but that is really up to
the regulators.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.
Page 5 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Nomura.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: The other day, Jamie, you mentioned housing at or near
a bottom. It's a little involved question, but curious to see, A) what you are seeing to give you that feeling? And
then B) what needs to happen?
In other words, I get that affordability metrics are okay; but there is a lot of inventory out there, underwriting
standards are too tight, there is lack of agency securitization market. Just curious if you can expand on that.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so let me answer the first part. I think what you need to see is employment. That is what you
need to see. Because employment in our opinion will drive household formation.
But if you look at the other factors, okay? We are destroying more homes than we built in the last several years.
We have added 10 million Americans. We're going to add 3 million Americans every year for the next 10 years;
that is 30 million Americans who need 13 million dwellings or something like that.
Household formation has been half what it normally is, and most economists tell us that is going to come back
with job creation. And the so-called shadow inventory is coming down, not going up. So for all the chatter about it,
it is very high.
Rental -- in half the markets in America it is now cheaper to rent than to buy -- it is cheaper to buy than to rent.
Housing is at all-time affordability. And my guess is that mortgage underwriting will loosen, not tighten.
So if you put all those things together, you're going to have a turn at one point. Look, I don't know if it's three
months, six months, nine months, but it's getting closer.
GLENN SCHORR: In the past when we were going the other way, you were kind enough to give us some
sensitivities around what happens if housing goes down X%. Not sure you have gotten that optimistic to calculate
it; but how sensitive is the whole balance sheet and earnings to that improvement?
JAMIE DIMON: It was much more sensitive to it going down, because we have to take capital losses, than going
up, where we don't get appreciation. So to me if you have housing get better, our charge-offs will just start to
rapidly go down.
GLENN SCHORR: Got you.
JAMIE DIMON: And you'll see real improvement in the mortgage portfolio, and then we won't need all the
reserves. So you get both of those things.
GLENN SCHORR: Right, right.
JAMIE DIMON: We also would have hopefully active mortgage markets and a healthy economy, and that would
be great.
GLENN SCHORR: I hear you. Another question is on -- Capital Markets related. As we all sit here and struggle
between determining the cyclical versus secular pressure, how do you go about sizing the IB?
And most specifically, between the capital charges and potential Volcker changes, how do you think about the
inventory businesses -- which you are so good in and big in -- as we sit here and wait for the rules?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm going to put Volcker aside, okay? Because that really hasn't been written yet. There are a lot
of things coming out about it.
You can come up with a scenario which is not good. I should remind everybody on the phone, but we -- the
United States has the widest and deepest and most transparent capital markets in the world. You should repeat
that over and over, particularly when you go to Washington. The widest, deepest, and the most liquid -- i.e., for
buyers and sellers, very narrow spreads.
That is a very good thing. Okay? The beneficiaries of very narrow spreads are the investors of the world.
So if you create -- if you lose liquidity, you lose market makers, you are going to -- it is going to cost retirees,
pensioners, firemen, retired military, more money to invest their money. So we need those things, and I think
we've got to be very careful we don't destroy that as we try to limit what I -- a fair limit they want to put on
proprietary trading.
Page 6 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

So at the end of the day, I think we will deal with that later. But beyond that I think it's -- secular is permanent?
Which one is it -- nor not permanent.
I think the trading -- think of the trading this way. Because we have 16,000 clients around the world. The amount
of money they are going to need to invest in the next 10 years is going to double.
So I think you have underlying growth, the same kind of underlying growth you had in the 2000s, '90s, the '80s,
the '70s, the '60s. And of course spreads will change and products will change and competition will change.
That's pretty good.
So we are going to be in the business. We make markets actively for people. We are very good at it.
And those institutions, 16,000, which include pension plans and governments and corporations, those are
required services. You need to have people making markets in that so people can move securities.
So you are starting to see a lot of people understand that. The volumes itself in the marketplace obviously go up
or down pretty dramatically not just by quarter, but sometimes by day.
GLENN SCHORR: Last one. I just saw a quick quote earlier that you felt the pressures are increasing in Europe. I
think there's a lot of people that feel like some of the liquidity metrics that have been put in place are a good thing.
If you could just comment on that, that would be super.
JAMIE DIMON: (multiple speakers) I don't know what liquidity metrics you are talking about, but I think what I am
saying is that I think what the ECB did was a very, very powerful thing. Okay? Which is extending the collateral
and three-year funding. So powerful, in fact, I think you could probably make the statement it eliminates bank
liquidity or funding problems for at least next year. That is a pretty powerful statement.
That was the biggest single risk of an uncontrollable surprise right there. So if that is taken off the table, that is a
good thing.
Now, the banks still have to increase capital; so therefore they are still reducing RWA -- i.e., by not rolling things
over. You can see them signing aircraft loans, trade finance, but they're not participating much in revolvers. There
are certain conduits they are not doing any more.
So you see them, but that is now just to create capital, not because they have a funding crisis.
So look, I think Europe is trying mightily to solve its problems. I still think like the likely outcome is they will muddle
through. But the longer you wait the higher you run a risk of something disorderly that you can't really control. So I
think the ECB took off the worst outcome -- i.e., a bank failure.
GLENN SCHORR: All right. Thank you for all that.
JAMIE DIMON: The other thing I would say, and it is quite obvious -- I just got back from Berlin yesterday. That
regulatory policy is completely contradictory to government objectives. They should start talking to each other a
little bit.
OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Couple of questions. One, on the IB; can
we just talk a little bit about how you are thinking about bidding for some of the assets that might be coming out of
Europe? I guess I am trying to understand where you are most interested in adding to your footprint.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so this is -- first of all, most of the assets we have are just -- I'm going to call ordinary course
of business, to maintain our trading books and credit for clients. So are we going to be aggressively bidding for
assets from overseas? No.
We have done some. You see that in the portfolio; it was up $10 billion. Some of that came out of Europe.
But again, going back to contradictory policy, most of us want to get our capital up and therefore we are not going
to do it.
BETSY GRASECK: Well, because last quarter -JAMIE DIMON: And that is the outcome of all these rules. You know? And that is life.
Page 7 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

BETSY GRASECK: Yes, but since last quarter you talked on the conference call about the fact that capital rules
weren't really that clear. They obviously became a little bit clearer between now and then.
JAMIE DIMON: Right, but they are clearer bad. I will give you a very specific example, because there was one
security we looked at that if you look at we believe would have had a 10% cash return. It really required very little
-- some economic capital.
Basel III statutory requirement was 1,200% capital. That is an 8% pretax return, 5.5% after-tax. We are not going
to do it.
That's all. That's life. Not a big deal for us. It is not great for the recovery of the global market.
BETSY GRASECK: Got it.
JAMIE DIMON: Because remember, that is not just one security. That filters through what people are doing
everywhere.
BETSY GRASECK: So, but then on the flip side, interest in low RWA assets, relatively high?
JAMIE DIMON: Right, yes, well, listen. We are still -- we are doing RWA in the budgets at a very detailed level
and LCR and all that. So, yes, we're going to have to manage; we're going to manage at a -- really micromanage
RWA.
So, yes, there are assets we're going to put on that we think will have very good RWA returns and we'll probably
be much more sensitive to that for now than we would be in the past.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Can we talk a little bit about headcount? Because you are one of the few companies
where headcount is growing.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
BETSY GRASECK: Revenue environment is still on the tougher side given the rate environment. Can you give us
a sense as to how much longer or what your expectations are for headcount?
In addition to that, just where your reinvestment spending is, and do you have to pull back at all at this stage?
Yes? No?
JAMIE DIMON: No, we are not pulling back. The overhead number I think we already mentioned, the $50 billion,
is I believe going to be pretty consistent so far for next year.
The headcount, let me just put in three things. We always gain efficiencies, which you don't see, in tech, ops,
overhead, a whole bunch of stuff. And we have added -- and we break it out -- you've got to do it by business. But
branches, so we have added 3,000 salespeople in branches in Consumer; some of that is the new branches,
some of it is in existing branches.
We are adding private bankers. We are adding branches overseas. We opened 20 branches overseas, mostly for
TS&S. So all those things add people.
But the biggest add, which we will not be adding any more, was to handle default. So there is -- I forgot the total
number. We have added 15,000 people the last two years, maybe more, just to handle default.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: In mortgage.
JAMIE DIMON: In mortgage. That number has probably peaked and I think you will see it coming down over the
next couple years.
BETSY GRASECK: Are you talking about people dealing with OREO?
JAMIE DIMON: No, no, no. Not OREO. Well, also OREO; but it's 15,000 to 20,000 just to deal with default
servicing, OREO, foreclosed assets, and all that kind of stuff.
BETSY GRASECK: So when we are modeling --?
JAMIE DIMON: So those numbers will -- I think it is now running
Page 8 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, we get -- that is the $925 million in servicing expense in that business.
JAMIE DIMON: Of which two-thirds is default now, and that default number is going to come down over the next
couple years, and the headcount related to that too.
BETSY GRASECK: Right. So that's tied to transaction volume in housing and how you get done bringing down
your OREO and the delinquencies.
So my last question just has to do with the outlook for home prices and transactions. I am just asking -- I know the
question was already asked, but I wanted to ask in conjunction to the PCI impairment that you took and the
reduction in the portfolio there.
JAMIE DIMON: Just to keep it simple, we are still assuming another point or two percent drop across-the-board in
home prices. We do it by region and stuff like that. If they dropped another -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, so if they dropped another 8 -- remember we said last quarter 10% -- 8% more and
you get $1.5 billion incremental impact in PCI reserves.
JAMIE DIMON: All things being equal.
BETSY GRASECK: Right. But you had made a change in your PCI reserves this quarter.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That is forecasting lifetime losses, yes.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, all right. Great.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Remember those little adjustments change that quite a bit.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so your outlook hasn't -- this doesn't reflect --?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, no.
JAMIE DIMON: No, my guess -- I go the other way. We have almost $9 billion of reserves for mortgages. We
have got $3 billion in reserves for repurchase. Charge-offs are coming down.
It is more likely than not we are going to have excess reserves, and this will be reversing at one point. To me it
will be when the economy gets stronger.
BETSY GRASECK: All right, great. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Richard Ramsden, Goldman Sachs.
RICHARD RAMSDEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Okay. Good morning. So I've got a couple of questions. If
we could get back to the LTRO, a couple of questions.
The first is, does this in any way change your willingness to engage in interbank transactions? I.e., compared to
where we were a month ago, are you more willing to engage in transactions with European banks? Or would you
say it is unchanged?
JAMIE DIMON: Again, when I talk about contradictory regulatory policy, when I was in Berlin they were
complaining that no banks were lending to other banks. Well, of course not.
If you look at the -- the banks are being penalized for lending to banks. The G-SIFI charge specifically penalizing
lending to banks. And the FDIC charge of 10 basis points is on interbank lending.
There will be no interbank lending ever again.
Now, maybe that is the wise policy in the future; that is perfectly reasonable. It is not reasonable now, but that is
what we did.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: The second thing, linked to this, do you think this will change the (multiple speakers)?
JAMIE DIMON: But one point, we do finance banks. We do have some credit out to banks, and we do do some
secured funding. So we do deal with banks. That is very different than interbank placing, where they get
unsecured short-term funds.
Page 9 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RICHARD RAMSDEN: The second thing is, do you think this will meaningfully change the speed of delevering of
assets coming out of Europe, as a result of European banks having such a significant amount of three-year
funding?
JAMIE DIMON: I think it reduces the pressure on them. But they have this 9% capital target they have to do by
June. So I think -- you've got to ask them. I think that is what is pushing them to shed risk-weighted assets, to get
to that 9%.
Most of them are not going to issue equity -- nor would I if I were them.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Okay. Then my last question is -JAMIE DIMON: But I would say we have not seen a huge -- a mean some people were expecting this wall of
sales, this wave of sales. We have not seen that.
We see a more orderly, particularly in trade finance, aircraft, some CMBS and some RMBS, some conduit-related
business, but it is not a wave. It is just a kind of orderly movement of assets from one -- some banks to others.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Okay. Then back in early December you talked about the possibility of getting Basel III
compliant early, i.e., at the end of 2012, which was a change to what I think you have said before.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Can you just give us an update both in terms of your thinking on that and, second, what
benefits you think you would get to getting Basel III compliant early?
JAMIE DIMON: I think what I said originally -- I know we flip-flopped on this a little. But originally we said there is
no reason to get there early. And then at your conference I said maybe 9% by the end of 2012.
We are going to drive it up. Okay? We have just put in CCAR. The Fed is giving out more guidance that they
would like to see people -- the way I am going to word it -- is like make real progress on getting to the -- well for
us, getting to the 9.5%, of course by 2018.
We are going to do that. So it may not be quite 9%, because we do like our stock and we don't mind buying back
stock. But I just think you're going to have people getting there quicker rather than slower.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Okay, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: People want to get out of the yoke of this thing at one point. I mean, we have got to get this
behind us.
The good news about the CCAR in my opinion is it should, I hope, definitively get rid of this capital issue once and
for all. If banks can demonstrate that at 13% unemployment, a market down 50%, home prices down 20%, a
catastrophe in the US market sales and trading, a catastrophe in European credit in sales and trading, and with
all that you are still way above Basel 1.5? It makes two points -- we've got plenty of capital and we don't need
more.
We are going to -- I think that point is going to be quite openly and blatantly when people release the results of
the CCAR.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Okay. Thanks a lot.
OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Yes, good morning. You talked -- we have talked a little bit about some
of the potential impact or the strong loan growth impact that you have gotten from some of the euro deleveraging.
But I guess I was just trying -- looking at the very strong commercial loan, growth wholesale loan growth, and
trying to get some idea of how much of that was coming excluding any euro impact. You know, just from core
customers either using more on working capital lines or investing in capital expenditures. And what is your outlook
for that continuing?
JAMIE DIMON: Commercial Bank is 100% US and has nothing to do with European banks. From what we can
see, it is continuing and it is very broad-based in terms of clientele, etc. It is not utilization; it is actually just new
lines of credit for the most part.
Page 10 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

I think in the Investment Bank, the loan portfolio went up $10 billion. That was about half -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Some of that is -JAMIE DIMON: They have got half of that related to -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Conduits and -JAMIE DIMON: Coming out of Europe.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That's right.
ED NAJARIAN: So it sounds like you see a lot of momentum there, just on the core commercial side, continuing
this year.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, yes.
ED NAJARIAN: Nevertheless, you are saying -- maybe you are gaining share in terms of lines of credit, but you
are saying you are not seeing an uptick in utilization on the lines of credit?
JAMIE DIMON: Modest uptick in utilization. But the reason we don't really know is -- remember we had a lot of
bankers particularly in Florida and California, which is new to us. So we know -- and we have got I think it is $2
billion of total loans came out of those areas. So we know some of our growth is -- with new area stuff obviously
you have some market share issues as opposed to --.
But I think when other banks report, you're going to see good loan growth numbers in commercial banking in the
US. Again, if you look at our numbers, small business up 52%. Trade finance up 73%. Investment Banking -- they
are all -- we are starting to see pretty good growth.
ED NAJARIAN: That is not any sort of just one-quarter bounceback or two-quarter bounceback kind of thing? It
might decelerate a little bit I guess; but it is something that you feel real good, pretty good about in terms of
momentum into '12?
JAMIE DIMON: The Commercial Bank it's been for six quarters now.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Six quarters, seven quarters in Middle Market. So this is really a trend we have been
seeing.
And by the way, same thing on the small business side. Right? We have just -JAMIE DIMON: It was a little slow this quarter.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: A little, yes, but it has been up significantly across the businesses all year.
ED NAJARIAN: So, other than the recovery of the business cycle in general, do you put any of that into this idea
that -- you hear some -- you read some of these stories about the re-industrialization of the United States and
more manufacturing facilities going into the United States than before, and more decisions being made that
maybe we shouldn't put that plant in China or Mexico, but we can eliminate the shipping cost back and we will put
it in the United States. Is (multiple speakers) something like that going on?
JAMIE DIMON: We are not macroeconomists. Okay? If you want to know about that, you should figure that out
yourself.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. All right. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Yes, first I would like to follow up on the last question. When you look at
wholesale loan growth, it was up 37% annualized in the fourth quarter. So it just seems as though there must be
some sort of re-intermediation by your Bank from the Capital Markets back to traditional banking. How can 37%
annualized loan growth be sustainable? So my question is -JAMIE DIMON: It's not. It's not. A big chunk of that -- if you take the Investment Bank loans, which I think that
went from $60 billion to $70 billion or something like that.
Page 11 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: That bounces all over the place. That includes bridge loans and it does include like $5 billion or
$6 billion of conduits we put in there. We don't expect to see that kind of loan growth every quarter in that
portfolio.
MIKE MAYO: Well, it is still 20% annualized loan growth, so I am just trying to understand the flight-to-quality
benefit. Are people moving business out of the Capital Markets back to the banks?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I would say, though, Mike, the other piece (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: No, they are not.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, but we had record syndicated loan fees, so there is a lot of that activity going on; but
you also saw a lot of activity in the Capital Markets. So people I think are doing both.
And we did see some real fundamental growth in the Investment Bank in terms of year-over-year stuff. But
quarter-over-quarter, I wouldn't draw a conclusion from that.
JAMIE DIMON: The wholesale line you're looking at is the consolidated wholesale, right?
MIKE MAYO: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: Which I don't -- and does that include (multiple speakers)?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That is TSS and that includes -JAMIE DIMON: That includes trade financing, and it was up a lot.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And it's in CB. CB and I think actually AM is also included in that number. I mean, we did
see growth across every single one of those businesses quarter-on-quarter.
MIKE MAYO: Well, still the more general question, the impact from Capital Markets to traditional banking. I mean
look at non-interest-bearing deposits, they were up $40 billion in three months. That is a 50% annualized growth
rate.
So it seems like something is happening in terms of people moving at least their money to you, if not wholesale
loans for reasons (multiple speakers).
JAMIE DIMON: Right. The wholesale loans, no. Other then we have mentioned $5 billion -- maybe it was a little
bit more -- relating to European loans that we bought, or conduits. I don't expect that to continue. It might.
So that is not a flight to quality. That is just other people who are trying to get rid of their assets. There is no
question in the liability side particularly in large corporates -- with TSS, you're right, it was up 100 and -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: $100 billion year-over-year.
JAMIE DIMON: More than $100 billion year-over-year. My guess is a lot of that was flight to quality. It is very hard
for us to distinguish because some of this is big money sitting there. Companies are flush with cash and their
cash balances are growing. Some are new accounts.
So we estimate that a chunk of that might be that, but we don't make a lot of money on that. So, the part -whatever you would call the flight to quality or something like that, we are making very little on it. We almost do
that more to accommodate the client.
MIKE MAYO: Then one last unrelated question. It seems like RFS keeps having negative operating leverage. I
know you are investing a lot and I am sure we will hear about this at Investor Day, but it seems like an awful big
branch build strategy that is not paying off yet. And it's during a period of when deposits aren't worth as much in a
low rate environment. So does that really make sense?
JAMIE DIMON: You have three completely different things. So, obviously, our operating leverage has gotten
worse because of regulations, Durbin, etc. That is a fact. That is number one.

Page 12 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Number two, we open branches. And I said we are modifying that, because a lot of these changes do affect
branch profitability. But to the extent that we can open a branch and get a very good return, we're going to
continue to do it.
Remember, a lot of this is in California, Florida where there is a huge benefit to clustering -- i.e., increasing your
market share inside local markets. So we're going to modify it, the size of the branch, location, type of product
services. But we're going to continue to open branches as long as we think every time you open a branch you are
getting a very good return.
And the third one was --?
MIKE MAYO: Just a low rate environment, and the deposits aren't worth as much.
JAMIE DIMON: This is a very important thing. We have decided -- and you may decide differently and think we're
wrong. But we have decided that the value of the deposits is more and we are not going to treat it like they are
very low for the sake of our business.
The value of the deposit will come back and we will regret having not continued growing our business as normal.
And the profits will go up, because eventually margins will go back to more normal type of things over time.
That is a decision we made -- open to comment or criticism. But as of now, unless someone can prove otherwise,
that is what we are going to do.
MIKE MAYO: All right, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: You're welcome.
OPERATOR: Jason Goldberg, Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Good morning. When you look at 2011,
obviously first-half trading result is significantly stronger than the second half. I guess typically we have seen a
seasonal uptick particularly in the first quarter of the year over the last several years.
I realize we are very early into the quarter, but just, I guess, given all the macro factors out there, is there anything
that leads to you believe that seasonality won't reoccur? Or just how are you thinking about that?
JAMIE DIMON: You know, honestly, your guess is as good as ours. Look, we have had a pretty good start so far,
but it's only so many trading days. Look, we could be surprised on the upside, the downside; who knows?
JASON GOLDBERG: Got it. Then in the release, you point to a fourth-quarter ROE that was modestly
disappointing. When you think about that, is that -- I guess do you mean driven by the macro factors? Or are
there are specific areas that you think underperformed given the macro environment?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, it was 11% return on tangible common equity, and we would like to be closer to 15%. So
that is all we meant.
A big part of the difference is there is still a huge drag for mortgage. I mean you're talking about several billion
dollars a year, just from mortgage alone. That drag is going down, but it is still a negative. Eventually, that will
disappear.
JASON GOLDBERG: Got it. Then just lastly on the third-quarter call you talked a lot about this capital confusion. I
guess earlier in this week you talked about you wanted to buy back equal to or more stock in 2012 versus the $9
billion you did in 2011, and then raise the dividend.
So I guess first two parts. I guess, one, do you -- I guess still can you provide more clarity on that front? Then
secondly, it seemed like your comments were more leaning towards buybacks and dividends than maybe they did
previously. Just maybe comment on that.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. Dividends, first of all, dividend is a small decision from a capital standpoint. So whether we
raise it a little bit here or there is not going to be material.
We still -- we started the dividend again. We would like to increase it a little bit every year. That is a Board
decision.
Page 13 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

When the stock is very cheap and particularly below tangible book value, I like to buy a lot back. Which, of
course, we can't do by the time we are allowed to buy a lot of stock back, I'm sure it is going to be a much higher
price. And then we may change our decision about that. So you can get a little frustration in my -- about how we
have had to do our capital buyback.
But we are getting more clarity from the Fed. The Fed has asked for these stress tests. The stress tests -- all the
banks have put in their CCAR, and we are going to tell you what that is when we get it back.
But I am not going to change the statement I made at the Goldman conference, which was we hope to be able to
do a little more than we did in 2011.
JASON GOLDBERG: Great. Thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: You're welcome.
OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning. I think I picked up when you
were talking about RFS that you had some offset from the Durbin impact from increased deposit related fees. Can
you give us a little bit more color on --?
JAMIE DIMON: No, no, no. Unrelated. It just says that deposit-related fees were up a little bit. Don't look at it as
an offset to Durbin.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, that was year-over-year.
JAMIE DIMON: It's a factual statement.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Year-over-year, Guy.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. Okay. Wanted to ask a little bit about liquidity coverage and the ratios. The Fed has
indicated that the US banks are going to have to undergo a liquidity stress test on a regular basis. You have
mentioned that you are concerned -JAMIE DIMON: Just so you know, most banks I know have always put themselves through liquidity stress tests.
So that you should do. I mean that is just a normal course of thing.
It is just they are going to get more involved in how it is designed and stuff like that. And we believe that we
should be able to handle a lot of stress in liquidity. I don't think (multiple speakers)
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Fair enough. I mean it's just that you have mentioned when looking at the Basel liquidity
rules that have been proposed that it bothers you that they don't credit some of the advantages that US banks
have, like the guarantees on agency securities and the access to the Fed window.
I was just wondering if you believe that you have been heard on those things, that the Fed will take those things
appropriately into account.
JAMIE DIMON: So, the LCR -- and you guys have all seen this -- has huge amount of detail behind it. We are in
favor of good detail.
And they got a lot of comments. Why are Ginnie Maes at a 15% discount? How come equities aren't in there?
How come Goldman isn't in there? How come the liquid assets?
And they got a lot of comments that the drawdown on deposits is too high. Millions of comments. They have
acknowledged some of those comments. Let them come back, and when we get the final stuff we will tell you.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: So the fact you deployed liquidity in the (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: Some of the stuff in the LCR was absurd. Okay? So hopefully they will be responsive at least to
the absurd parts.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: So, the fact that you mentioned that you deployed liquidity during the quarter, and that was
one of the things that helped with the net interest margin, that is not that you are feeling more comfortable with
this or with what the Fed is saying? It is just that it is too --?
Page 14 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: No, no, no. That's normal balance sheet management.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. From what you know of the Fed liquidity rules, if they were in fact -- if they were
implementing their stress test right now, do you think you would be compliant with what they are looking for?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know yet. But, Guy, I don't think it is going to be material to us any which way. There's
really -- if we have to make some adjustments, we will make some adjustments.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Fair enough. Final question that I have is on the non-credit-impaired portfolio and the
reserve release there. The mortgage delinquency trends that we can see did continue to improve. But it seems
like the improvement is at a moderating pace.
JAMIE DIMON: Right.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: So, I was hoping maybe you could give us a little bit more color on what drove the decision
to release.
And I guess a longer-term question would be how to think about (multiple speakers). Sorry, go ahead.
JAMIE DIMON: It's very simple, okay? You see the numbers. They moderated. And maybe there will be a little
improvement going forward.
What made us change our mind is the accountant said we had to. I would have left the reserves up if it was solely
up to me.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. So in other words, if we were transitioning already into an expected loss versus say
a current incurred loss reserve model, you might not have done it?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, that's another question. I like having a strong -- look, eventually we have $9 billion reserves
we don't need, okay? So just until we get through all this uncertainty, I would rather just have them up.
But basically the numbers have gotten too good over time to leave up that amount of reserves.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Guy, you -JAMIE DIMON: Under current accounting. There is going to be a change in accounting, but that is not -- we will
worry about that when we get there.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Guy, if you just do the math and you say 8.77, you multiply it by 4, so call it 3.6, we still
after that have $8.7 billion worth of reserves up for that portfolio.
JAMIE DIMON: But one of the things in the stress test, not just for us but for a lot of banks, is the portfolios are
smaller. They've got a lot more reserves up, and a lot of the bad stuff has run through.
So loss rates won't go up as much. I am talking about in a real stress test -- and you won't need to add as much
to reserves, from where we were a couple years ago.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Yes, that is entirely fair.
JAMIE DIMON: Right.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks very much for the color. Appreciate it.
OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.
MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Following up on the earlier comment that the NIM percent
might be down a little bit in the first quarter, if we think about the net interest income dollars, should we see
continued growth off of this level?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, I mean -- it should be flat to up. Again, that is a function of deposits and it's a function
of loans, and we expect both of those to continue the trend if the world stays the same.
JAMIE DIMON: By the way, I just got a note that one of the newspapers out there thinks that we haven't done a
full disclosure on Europe. The reason we didn't add a European theme is pretty much like it was last quarter. Not
much has changed, so -- if anyone is interested.
Page 15 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just a flat to up comment, is that for the first quarter, or just --? I mean if you are
growing loans consistently throughout next year, it seems like you could have an upward trajectory throughout the
year.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Matt, if that is the case, we should have an upward trajectory throughout the year.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Now remember, again, one other thing. That is net loan growth. We did tell you we are
going to have portfolio runoff in home lending, so that is going to impact NII on an absolute dollar basis by about
$500 million. So, the mix will change; but if trends continue where they are, yes.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then a separate topic. Mortgage putback continues to grab some headlines here. Can
you just clarify and remind us what portions the FDIC is covering related to WaMu?
I think there was some debate whether the private label was covered; the GSE is covered. Could you just clarify
that for us?
JAMIE DIMON: I think you are confusing two things. The GSE putback number, that is the $350 million that we
had, those numbers are basically timing difference. Just, there was like $3 billion of reserves; we don't expect a
real change in that.
Some of that, there were pieces of that that were settled relating to WaMu. I forgot which one, it was Fannie or
Freddie.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And that number, that number, Matt, that is a fixed dollar amount and we are working
through that and would expect to be through that in 2012.
Then on the private label side, there is not confusion on our part. We do not believe we have repurchase liability
for the private label claims from WaMu.
MATT O'CONNOR: Then from the outside, though, how do we know what the verdict on that is? What should we
be following?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That is going to be -- that is going to work its way out in the courts.
JAMIE DIMON: Litigation. We put up a lot of those reserves for litigation.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just lastly, sticking with the litigation theme, the merchant suit against Visa,
MasterCard, and the banks, there is the court date scheduled for September. It seems like there will be potentially
some sort of settlement.
Any thoughts you have on how it might impact credit card interchange or an upfront settlement charge?
JAMIE DIMON: We have no comment on that.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Jamie, I just wanted to follow up on
a comment I thought you made in terms of capital, in terms of perhaps not aggressively trying to move toward the
9% Basel III number by the end of 2012. Is that your current thinking?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm sorry. What's the question?
MATT BURNELL: I am just wondering if you're -- if what you said before focused on maybe not trying to
aggressively reset 9% Basel III Tier 1 Common number by the end of this year?
JAMIE DIMON: You know, look, I don't want to give you quite a number yet. But it may not be 9%, but it will be
8.5% or something like that. We are going to make a lot of progress towards getting to the 9.5%.
MATT BURNELL: Okay.
Page 16 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: And my guess is we will be at the 9%. And maybe get to 9.5% right away, because it wouldn't be
that hard to do if we wanted to do it.
I don't think it would be good policy, but it's helping an economic recovery. And my guess is we will be at 9.5% by
the end of 2013.
MATT BURNELL: Okay. That's fair. Then just following up on your comment on the no material change in your
European exposures. I am just curious if you have any thoughts on some of the commentary that the regulators
have made about potentially seeking greater clarity across the US banks in terms of their disclosure, and whether
or not that might change some of the disclosure that comes out of the regulators as well.
JAMIE DIMON: No, I think you -- I think we already disclosed a lot of what they -- what the SEC said people were
going to disclose. Right? There is very little to add.
So for us it is not a lot different than what we showed. I think other people didn't show that kind of detail. You're
going to get more detail.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: But, Matt, you should expect to see the slide that Jamie put up at a conference in
December. That will be in our filings.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, great.
JAMIE DIMON: With a little more detail.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: With a little more detail, and we may add some additional countries to that. But that is the
level of the disclosure we are expecting for others to have as well.
MATT BURNELL: That would be helpful. Then just one final question on the Investment Bank. It looked like Asian
revenues were down about 47% quarter-over-quarter, even though loans were up about 14%.
Was there anything going on there? Was there anything particularly, especially this quarter or last quarter, that
drove that decline?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, there really wasn't. I mean the capital markets are a big part, equity in particular, of
our Asian business; and those were very challenging in the quarter.
If you look at ex-DVA, which actually had an impact there, it was a little smaller decline. And year-over-year
revenues internationally for the Bank were up a couple of billion dollars and a much larger percentage, almost
24% of the total revenue, up from about 21%.
MATT BURNELL: Has your outlook for Asian contribution to overall IB revenues in 2012 changed materially over
the last quarter or so?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I don't think our outlook has changed. But again, it's going to be in part a function of the
markets and how open they are for business.
MATT BURNELL: Sure.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Pipeline is great. What you can execute on -- that is why pipeline is so deceptive, because
what you can actually execute is a different question.
MATT BURNELL: And that is Asian pipeline or overall Investment Banking?
JAMIE DIMON: Overall.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Unfortunately the pipeline gets bigger as you can't execute and the stuff gets delayed.
MATT BURNELL: Sure, sure.
JAMIE DIMON: But we are not building Asia for next quarter. We are covering a lot of clients and the volumes will
go up or down, and we are going to build there, we have opened branches there. We are building a Global
Corporate Bank there. We are covering more clients there.
That is going to continue. The volumes themselves will be volatile.
Page 17 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MATT BURNELL: Okay. Thank you very much.
OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.
GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning. Can you give us some
color on your branch expansion strategy? I know you outlined it last February. You will probably update it for us
on this February.
But then you changed it in the third quarter. Where does it stand now in terms of branches?
JAMIE DIMON: It's exactly what I said in the third quarter. There is a page that you can go get from that
presentation I made at Goldman.
It is about 175 branches, and we are looking at things like size and technology and locations. But we're still going
to be opening branches particularly in California and Florida, where we need more share.
There is nothing mystical about it. We have to adjust it. Some of the regulatory changes made certain branches
less profitable, etc. That's all.
GERARD CASSIDY: Is there a possibility -- since your deposit market share doesn't exceed 10% of the total US
deposits, which would prevent somebody from buying another bank, but the too-big-to-fail doctrine seems to be
weighing on your bank and a few others. Do you think you could -- if M&A comes back, could you guys buy
depositories in the US?
JAMIE DIMON: First of all, we had to get rid of the too-big-to-fail thing, because I think companies had to be
allowed to fail. And therefore I think we need to help show people that resolution is real.
So you're going to see us be making a little bit of effort on that. How can you dismantle a big bank in a way that
doesn't damage the taxpayer or the economy in any material way?
We are still under the 10% cap. Look, I think it would probably be a political firestorm if we tried to buy someone
in the United States. If we thought it was really, really good for shareholders, we would want to do it; and we
would be willing to have a little mud on our face.
But, we need regulatory approval. So if we can't get regulatory approval, then we are not going to try.
The United States is still -- counter to all this chatter about too-big-to-fail, the United States is the least
consolidated banking market in the world and there are still too many banks. And unfortunately, some of the -- all
of these regulatory things are tougher on smaller banks than bigger banks. So you are going to see a lot of them
wanting to sell or merge.
GERARD CASSIDY: Then finally on your outlook for Durbin, the $600 million, the impact, is that the incremental
impact from the fourth quarter? Or is that the total impact that is already reflected in the run rate in the fourth
quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: It is reflected in the run rate in the fourth quarter.
GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.
ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Thanks, guys. Just wanted to circle back on
Guy's question earlier on asset quality. Just wanted to understand how we should think about remaining credit
leverage as things seem to be turning. Credit Card has been a big driver in terms of the reserve release nearer
term, but that seems like it is going to start moving higher in terms of losses.
How do we think about the degree of reserve release that might be able to come out?
JAMIE DIMON: I think in Credit Card we are near the end of reserve release if that is what you are referring to.
(multiple speakers) Credit is very good and hopefully it will stay good. It may get a little better, but I think we are
near the end.
In terms of mortgage, I think we already mentioned of the $9 billion, one day you won't need all that. But we need
far more improvement in charge-offs, delinquencies, all that before that reserve will come down.
Page 18 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Jamie, I would add on the repurchase reserve front, I have got 3.6 there. That is another
number that over time should come down materially.
ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. Thank you. Then on commercial wholesale, should we expect incremental build
for the growth that you are seeing? Or how should we think about that?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but just call it steady-state now in most of the wholesale areas. Strong reserves, but
steady-state. If we grow, you're going to have a little build, yes -- all things being equal, which they are not. But
yes.
ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay, thanks. Then just a question. In the Investment Banking detail you had
mentioned that part of the Credit Portfolio results of the loss of $31 million this quarter were due to the DVA
losses. But they were offset by NII and some fees; but also CVA. How much was the CVA this quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: Net CVA was very small. So at a steady-state that line called Credit Portfolio would be a couple
hundred million dollar positive. But of course if you look at it, it bounces all over the place because of CVA and
DVA effects.
ANDREW MARQUARDT: Great, thank you.
OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.
BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, guys. Most of my questions have been touched on. Just a quick one
here. On the $569 million headwind from the change in MSR valuation, can you discuss the impact that HARP 2.0
had on that?
JAMIE DIMON: Not much. It was a little bit. There were a lot of things in there, okay? Home prices, paydown
rates, how we look at -- what kind of required returns we need on the MSR itself. The option-adjusted return.
So there were large model updates with a lot of pluses and minuses.
BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: James Mitchell, Buckingham Research.
JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hey, good morning. Maybe a follow-up on the
market share story out of Europe, as the banks -- you've mentioned quite a bit about lending and trade finance.
Have you seen anything yet as we hear about some of the European banks pulling out of -- whether it is trading
or investment banking? Have you seen any impact or benefit there in market share? Or what do you expect in
2012? Any pickups?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, what I have seen -- not really, okay? There have been more announcements than actions.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: Today I guess it was RBS who said M&A and equity is going to stay in Fixed Income, so we
haven't really seen it. Maybe if I went and walked -- ask the traders; they may have seen a little bit.
But eventually you are going to -- there will be some people exiting some of the things and those who remain will
probably pick up a little share because of it.
JAMES MITCHELL: Right, and just one other question. On the long-term debt, it was down $17 billion in the
quarter after being pretty stable for the prior three. Is that just a function of the markets weren't conducive to
rolling over debt? Or are you looking to actively reduce that over time?
JAMIE DIMON: No, it is just a function of our own funding needs.
JAMES MITCHELL: So should we expect that to go down, or is it just going to bounce around with your balance
sheet?
JAMIE DIMON: I think you should not really expect it to go down.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay. All right. Thanks. Bye.
OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.
Page 19 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great. Thanks. Jamie, you talked about the regulatory
response being different once you get to 9.5%. Could you talk a little bit about how you would see that
relationship once you got to the level that you thought they -- that you should be at?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I guess my point is I think a lot of people want to get past all this, and go back to --. Look, we
should always have stress tests and liquidity and stuff like that. But when the rules are known, you should -- we
shouldn't be guessing about what we want to retain in capital and how fast you want to get there and what the
requirements are and what the phase-in is.
So all that uncertainty should be eliminated. Here are the rules that banks have lived by. That's all.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay. Just on the mortgage front, given we've had yet another one of these ideas that the
settlement with the AGs is imminent, could you talk a little bit about how you see things developing then?
Could that be a trigger for some of that reserve release that you are talking about? Or what would it take do you
think (multiple speakers)?
JAMIE DIMON: Unrelated, okay? So it is still imminent. It would be nice to get it done, but there are still open
issues and we have been working mightily to try to get it done, because I think it would be better.
I think it would be good for the mortgage markets to move on. I think that anything that can get resolved is better
for the mortgage markets.
But it has nothing to do with the reserves, though it will affect numbers. We will have to account for whatever the
agreement is, and we have already done some of that. So there will be some adjustment because of it. But it
won't really affect reserves that much.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right. I guess getting your (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: I should mention, it is embedded in the reserves.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: But it probably will have no major net effect.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. Given your relative optimism on housing, are there things that could be done to help
the down payment piece? Because that seems to be just the last piece that is really hard to bring to the table.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't -- look, if it were up to me, I think that someone in authority should convene all the people
involved in mortgage businesses and -- because this could be fixed.
It's three years after the crisis. There are virtually no RMBS. We don't know the skin in the game rules.
Foreclosure is being up held up everywhere, which is damaging the economy.
I mean, you can blame the banks; most of that is the economy. These things could be fixed. You could have
much more mortgage markets.
Underwriting is still tight. I think underwriting will probably loosen over time. It is tight for a whole bunch of different
reasons.
And obviously GSE policy is critical, as is HARP 2 and all these things. But there is no one really in charge of all
this. It is just kind of sitting there.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: No one is coordinating it.
JAMIE DIMON: Right. If someone (multiple speakers) together and made some good decisions, I think you would
have a much more rapid recovery in housing.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Richard Bove, Rochdale Securities.
RICHARD BOVE, ANALYST, ROCHDALE SECURITIES: Hi. In looking what's going on in Europe, it is really hard
to understand how these European banks will ever meet the Basel III requirements in the short run. So I am
Page 20 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

wondering if there is a real possibility that this is going to be pushed out in the United States also a year or two
years, and whether definitions are going to be changed to make it a lot easier to deal with these rules.
In other words, I simply cannot conceive of how this thing can go into effect in Europe. I am wondering how it
could go into effect in the United States if it doesn't go into effect in Europe.
JAMIE DIMON: Let me add to your confusion here a second. Okay? We are running Basel I, Basel II, Basel 2.5,
and Basel III. Remember, the European Banks are already on, in effect, Basel 2.5. So they just have to go from
2.5 to III, where the American banks had to go from I to III.
So when they say they've got to get 9%, it is not Tier 1 Common -- it is Tier 1 Core, which is slightly different -- by
June of 2012, that is an accelerated getting there ready. They have already got I would say most of Basel III in
that. Maybe I am a little wrong on that, but I think most of Basel III is already incorporated in Basel 2.5.
But it has put a lot of pressure on these banks in Europe, who -- look they in the past have overleveraged, there is
too much unsecured funding. But they operated under that scheme for a long time, sanctioned by the states.
This is why I say it is completely pro-cyclical what is being caused in Europe right now. So, will it change? I don't
know. Will that change what American regulators want to do? I don't think so.
RICHARD BOVE: The risk-weighted asset definitions seem to be a lot different in Europe than they are here.
Companies like Credit Suisse have a 20% to risk-weighted assets to total asset ratio. In addition to which in
looking at liquidity, is Nestle really a worse credit than Greece? Doesn't all of that stuff have to be resolved before
they go forward with any implementation of Basel III?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but I've got to leave that to them. We have got to run our business here, and I do think it
causes a lot of confusion. If you speak to banks in Europe, they are -- they think a lot will get done now. And they
know it is pro-cyclical, and they think some of this stuff is silly. But let them tell you what they need to do about it.
RICHARD BOVE: Okay. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Ron Mandle, GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. I was just wondering about the tax rate in the quarter. The rate
seemed considerably lower than you have had in earlier quarters or the full year, if there was something we
should know about there.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, it was true-ups.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Ron, it was just some true-ups, some state and local benefits. And you should expect low
30%s for 2012.
JAMIE DIMON: I just mentioned about Europe, by the way, because like I said I was in Berlin yesterday, and that
-- it is quite clear when you speak to like the ECB, and they did the three-year funding, there why aren't banks
making loans and buying sovereign debt? So it's got this huge arbitrage. You can earn 4%, 5%, 6%, and finance
it at 1%.
But if you ask the banks, they are saying -- I can't buy sovereign debt because I am already being criticized
heavily by other regulators about my sovereign debt, my quota. I've got to get all those numbers down.
So over there it is quite clear that regulatory policy, government policy, Central Bank policy, it is not coordinated.
And it's making the situation worse, not better.
RON MANDLE: Yes, thanks, Jamie. I guess -JAMIE DIMON: Basically there's no one in charge of the global financial system. If you looked at the
inconsistencies and the countercyclical things we are doing and the pro-cyclical, it's crazy. It's not the way to get a
recovery going.
And I don't expect it to change, by the way. So we're just going to run our business as best we can.
RON MANDLE: Yes, well, Jamie, I guess in that regard, I was just wondering. The ECB seems to be constantly
using its collateral standards; what are the risks that you might worry about in that regard as they keep using their
standards to provide liquidity as the banks have to meet the requirements that you referred to?
Page 21 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Well, look, I think the ECB did the right thing. Because when the banks are -- when everybody is
questioning the sovereign debt and everybody is questioning unsecured debt and everybody is questioning
wholesale debt, and everybody is questioning -- the banks had to get funding. What is the ECB supposed to do?
Let them not get funding?
RON MANDLE: No, I agree with you. They are doing the right thing so far, but that brings its own risks possibly at
some point down the road. I guess that is what I am wondering about.
JAMIE DIMON: Look, I have been very consistent. I think we are shooting ourselves in the foot everywhere
around the world.
I don't know how to say it. I have said it 100 times. I am not complaining. JPMorgan will be fine, but that is what
we are doing.
No one is really in charge in putting these things together and realizing the negative effect it is causing. We can
get through it all; it is just going to take it -- it's going to make it more painful and slower.
We all want jobs. This is not job creating.
RON MANDLE: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer & Co.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Oh, my goodness. After Jamie's exegesis on regulators, my
questions are going to seem so mundane. But you gave us some nice disclosure on the breakout of the Mortgage
Servicing expense between core and the default expense. I am looking at the $3.8 billion default-related expense.
Is there a way to gain what that number would be if mortgage -- when delinquency rates ultimately return to 50 or
100 basis points?
JAMIE DIMON: The default fees will be close to zero.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Chris, the ongoing servicing number is, call it a couple hundred million bucks a quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: That will stay.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That will stay.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Right, okay.
JAMIE DIMON: I think someone put a slide out somewhere else that actually showed what it will remain. So it will
come down quite a bit, but not all the way.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: All right. Then just a clarification on your dividend buybacks -- share buybacks. Last March
you announced a $15 billion multiyear repurchase program of which $8 billion was for '11. That was subsequently
bumped up to $9 billion. Theoretically, $6 billion remains.
Do you have clearance to do that in the early part of this year, or do you have to wait for the CCAR?
JAMIE DIMON: No, the CCAR will allow us to -- we're going to be told what we can buy back in terms of stock or
not. We have applied, so we will get a response on March 15th. So you will know on March 15th what we know.
Forget what is open.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, that is a Board authorization; and obviously we'll -CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Not Fed. That is the Board, not Fed?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Right. That is a Board authorization. We will adjust it to whatever we are announcing in
March.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: All right. Then I'd just turn it back to Jamie to see if has any -- wants to share any other
thoughts about the regulators.

Page 22 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Well, please, don't take words -- I'm not talking about the regulators. I'm talking about the
inconsistent policy between certain regulatory policies, certain government policy, and the so-called objective to
get the economies of the world going again. They are inconsistent.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Fair enough.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: You guys should write about that. They are inconsistent and it's too bad.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Right. I'm done. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH, LLC: Morning. A little bit about regulatory inconsistency. Jamie,
would you just speak to the Fed's sort of White Paper on the mortgage market that came out a couple weeks
ago? And then Governor Rankin came out and blasted the mortgage servicers and said that principal writedowns
remain on the table etc. etc.
Where is -- what is going on with the Fed?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, I don't know. Look, everyone wants to get the mortgage market healthier. I think the Fed in
that White Paper also showed that costs are higher than they should be. The mortgage costs. If you reduced the
mortgage costs, the spreads over 10 years and stuff like that could be -- I forgot the number -- 30 or 40 basis
points cheaper.
And I agree with them. That is not going to happen where -- you can't foreclose on homes. It is not going to
happen if you don't have RMBS. So it is more of a -- you need a holistic approach to get it all done.
So I am not -- I think the Fed is right that there should be a holistic approach. We put in the press release that we
have offered 1.2 million mortgage modifications. Okay? And that we have actually completed 400,000, and that
we are making 765,000 mortgages a year.
So with all due respect, we are making mortgages all day long. We are signing to the GSEs we want to be in the
business.
On the servicing side mistakes were made. They are being fixed. We are paying for them, and we should. We
should pay for the mistakes we made.
But let's keep the mortgage market active. You did see Ally say they are not going to do mortgages in
Massachusetts anymore because of certain litigation there and stuff like that. That is not a good thing.
NANCY BUSH: My second question would be -- you mentioned share repurchase quite a bit in your comments
(multiple speakers).
JAMIE DIMON: I also don't agree that somehow principal forgiveness would be the end-all, the be-all. Okay?
There are 75 million homes. 25 million don't have mortgages. Of the 45 million or so with mortgages, 4 million of
those mortgages are having problems, and we are working through those.
Those who can't afford to stay in their home, the loans in effect are being written off and forgiven. Okay?
Millions of mods are being offered; all of the banks are doing it as aggressively as they can. And all the banks
have geared up to try to handle just the raw amount of defaults and stuff like that.
We support HARP 1, we support HARP 2, we supported HAMP, and we're doing our own mortgage modifications
on top of that.
NANCY BUSH: Okay, thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: I think -- and we want to see a recovery in the housing markets. We would do anything we can to
get a recovery in the housing markets.
NANCY BUSH: Well, did you regard the White Paper as helpful or -- I mean, the commentary that came after it
seemed distinctly unhelpful to me.

Page 23 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: Look, I don't remember the commentary that came after it. I think some of the things in the White
Paper were interesting. If I was the powers that be -- I have already said this -- I would convene all the people
involved in the business. I would close the door. I would stay there until we resolved a bunch of these issues so
we could have a more healthy mortgage market.
I think if you had RMBS, if you finished skin in the game, if you change reps and warranties, if we made -- if we
figured out how you can deal with seconds and firsts, you could fix all this -- if someone was in charge. No one is
in charge.
NANCY BUSH: Okay. I want to ask about -- you have mentioned share repurchase several times today. But not -you haven't mentioned dividends so much.
I mean is this -- do you see extraordinary situation right now in your stock price, where this year dividend would
take a backseat to share repurchase, because of the stock price?
JAMIE DIMON: Look, I don't know. The Board -- when we started them -- I am very consistent -- said we hoped to
do a little bit of increase every year. That is what we hope to do. When the Board talks about it, they are going to
decide what that number is.
NANCY BUSH: Okay.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think it is that critical to our Company. You are talking about small numbers relative to all
these other things.
NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Nomura. It seems that question has been withdrawn. Christopher Wheeler.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER, ANALYST, MEDIOBANCA: Yes, good morning. It's Chris Wheeler with Mediobanca
here. A question on risk-weighted assets under Basel III, if I might. I think if I remember rightly you were talking
about uplift of about $180 billion from Basel I to Basel III.
Of that $180 billion, I wonder if you could give me some flavor as to -- of actual mitigation, sorry. How much of
that mitigation has already been achieved? Because obviously we can't see that given you are still reporting on
Basel I.
Perhaps a flavor for what the nominal asset value is behind that. And then also, perhaps what timetable you set
yourselves in terms of running that off as you move towards, obviously, getting there sooner rather than later?
Then finally, perhaps, how much of that is going to be active and how much of that is going to be passive
mitigation?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Okay. So the numbers today are about $300 billion in uplift, and what we said is we are
going to bring that number down. It's really going to be two things.
One is, we just have natural portfolio run-off across the businesses and that is going to reduce RWA. And the
second -JAMIE DIMON: Without doing anything.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And the second is there is just model implementation. And that is again with just literally
inputting the data that is required in order to have a somewhat different treatment than the standard.
That is going to just take time. We are going to do that over the next two years, and you will see that roll through
the numbers over the next two years.
JAMIE DIMON: And it's normal modeling. It is nothing special. It is normal modeling that was expected at Basel III
that we just hadn't built yet.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: But sorry, I am getting kind of confused here. You're saying $300 billion of uplift is
your expectation?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, there is $300 billion of difference today. The Basel I numbers -JAMIE DIMON: Just start with Basel III. Basel III is $1.5 trillion. It is going to come down how much?
Page 24 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It will come down over time another $100-ish-billion.
JAMIE DIMON: Right, and part of this model was run off.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: You are saying virtually none of that is going to be active? It is by model, and it is by
--?
JAMIE DIMON: Then we will actively do stuff, too. Believe me, we will very actively do stuff. It's just not (multiple
speakers)
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: Sorry, go on.
JAMIE DIMON: Go on.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: What is it on? Give me a rough idea what the nominal is behind that? Because that
is one of these leading factors here. You touched on that earlier.
JAMIE DIMON: Behind which one?
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: The nominal behind that $100 billion of run-off of risk-weighted assets. You were
talking earlier about 1000% uplifts on some of the RWAs or some of the assets you were looking at earlier. I
wondered what the nominal was behind that $100 billion of mitigation.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay, let's do this again. We're going to do it the last time.
There are -- we are running off -- is it $100 billion of RWA? Where there's loans or high RWA assets that we are
not going to regenerate again, that are going to run off the books, there is nothing we need to do. That includes
high RWA loans. It includes all these mortgages loans that's running off.
Then there are models which we are just building which are normal modeling and stuff like that that we're allowed
to put into Basel III, which will do another whole chunk of reduction in RWA. Do you have the chart right there?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: The total of those two is about $100 billion.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. $100 billion.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: Okay, so the -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I don't know the exact -- we can get back to you on the exact nominal dollar amount. But a
lot of it is in the mortgage portfolio, so it is pretty close to that number.
CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: Okay. Okay. That's much clearer. Thank you so much.
OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Nomura.
BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: I apologize. I don't have a question. I don't know why that
keeps happening.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Great.
JAMIE DIMON: Folks, thank you for spending some time with us, and we will talk to you soon.
OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
Page 25 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020120127e81d001b9

Page 26 of 26 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

