Q4 2018 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
13,953 words
15 January 2019
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
© 2019 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
Presentation
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Fourth Quarter and Full Year
2018 Earnings Call. This call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) We will now go live to the presentation.
Please stand by.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon; and Chief
Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.
MARIANNE LAKE, EXECUTIVE VP & CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, operator. Good morning,
everyone. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation, which is available on our website. Please refer
to the disclaimer at the back of the presentation.
Starting on Page 1. The firm reported fourth quarter net income of $7.1 billion and EPS of $1.98 on revenue of
nearly $27 billion with a return on tangible common equity of 14%. Market impacts aside, underlying business
drivers remained solid, including core loans and deposit growth, consumer sentiment and spending in a robust
holiday season, capital market activity and with credit performance continuing to be very strong across
businesses.
For the full year of 2018, the firm reported revenue of $111.5 billion and net income of $32.5 billion, both clear
records even adjusting for the impacts of tax reform. And so we're entering 2019 with good momentum across our
businesses.
Turning to Page 2 and some more detail about our fourth quarter results. Revenue of $26.8 billion was up $1.1
billion or 4% year-on-year, driven by net interest income. NII was up $1.2 billion or 9% on higher rates and on
loan and deposit growth. Noninterest revenue was down slightly, with lower market levels impacting Asset Wealth
Management fees and Private Equity losses being offset by higher Card fees and Auto lease growth in CCB.
Expense of $15.7 billion was up 6% year-on-year. The increase related to investments we are making in
technology, marketing, real estate and front office as well as revenue-related costs, including growth in Auto. This
was partially offset by a reduction in FDIC fees. As we had hoped, the incremental surcharge was eliminated
effective the end of the third quarter, and this is a benefit of a little over $200 million for the quarter across our
businesses.
Credit trends remained favorable across both Consumer and Wholesale. Credit costs of $1.5 billion were up $240
million year-on-year, driven by changes in reserves. In Consumer, we built reserves of $150 million in Cards on
loan growth. In Wholesale, over the last several quarters, we have seen net reserve releases and recoveries.
However, this quarter, we had about $200 million of credit costs. Again, largely reserve builds on select C&I client
downgrades driven by a handful of names across multiple sectors.
While we are constantly looking at the granular level [for shadows], these downgrades are idiosyncratic and do
not reflect signs of deterioration in our portfolio. The outlook for credit as we see it remains positive.
Shifting to the full year results on Page 3. We reported net income for the year of $32.5 billion, a return on
tangible common equity of 17% and EPS of $9 a share. Net income was a record for the firm as well as for each
of our businesses, even excluding tax reform.
Page 1 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Revenue of $111.5 billion is also a record and was up nearly $7 billion or 7% year-on-year, $4.3 billion of which
was higher net interest income on higher rates with growth and card margin expansion being offset by
lower-market NII. Noninterest revenue was up $2.5 billion or 5%, driven by CIB Markets and growth in Consumer,
being offset by Private Equity losses and the impact of spread widening on FCA.
We ended the year with adjusted expense at $63.3 billion, up 6%, which brings our overhead ratio to 57% for the
year even as we continue to make very significant investments across the franchise. And although we are
showing modest positive operating leverage on a managed basis, remember, our revenues were impacted by
lower growth starts given tax reform. Adjusted for this or looking on a GAAP basis, we delivered nearly 200 basis
points of positive operating leverage for the year and well over 100 basis points for the fourth quarter.
On credit, the environment remained favorable throughout 2018. Credit costs were $4.9 billion, down 8%, driven
by lower net reserve build in Consumer as well as the impact in 2017 of student loan sales.
Moving on to Page 4 and balance sheet and capital. We ended the quarter with a CET1 ratio of 12%, flat to last
quarter. Risk-weighted assets decreased with loan growth more than offset by derivatives counterparty and
trading RWA, given a combination of seasonality, market conditions and model enhancements. Our net payout
ratio for the quarter exceeded 100%, and we repurchased $5.7 billion of shares.
Moving to Consumer & Community Banking on Page 5. CCB generated net income of $4 billion and an ROE of
30% for the fourth quarter and, for the year, nearly $15 billion of net income and an ROE of 28%. Customer
satisfaction remains near all-time highs across our businesses. For the quarter, core loans were up 5%
year-on-year, driven by Home Lending up 8%; Cards, up 6%; and Business Banking, up 5%. Deposits grew 3%.
Growth continues to slow given the rising rate environment, but importantly, we believe we continue to outpace
the industry.
Of note, this quarter, we opened the first 10 branches in our expansion markets, including D.C., Boston and
Philadelphia. And although it's clearly early, reception in the market and the performance of the new branches
have been strong.
Despite volatile markets, client investment assets were still up 3%. And we saw record net new money flows for
the year. Card sales were up 10%, debit sales up 11% and merchant processing volume is up 17%, reflecting a
strong and confident consumer during the holiday season. And in keeping with our focus on digital everything, of
note, active mobile customers were up 3 million users or 11% year-on-year.
Revenue of $13.7 billion was up 13%. Consumer & Business Banking revenue was up 18% on higher deposit NII,
driven by margin expansion. Home Lending revenue was down 8%, driven by lower net production revenue in a
low volume, highly competitive environment. And of note, while not a material driver of overall expense, revenue
headwinds here were offset by lower net production expense.
And Cards, Merchant Services & Auto revenue was up 14%, driven by higher Card NII on both loan growth and
margin expansion, lower card net acquisition costs, principally Sapphire Reserve, and higher Auto lease volumes.
Card revenue rate was 11.6% for the quarter and 11.27% for the year as expected. Expense of $7.1 billion was
up 6%, driven by investments in technology and marketing and Auto lease depreciation, partially offset by lower
FDIC charges and other expense efficiencies.
On credit, net charge-offs were down $18 million as modestly higher charge-offs in Card were more than offset by
lower charge-offs in Auto and Home Lending. Charge-off rates were down year-on-year across all portfolios.
Economic indicators remain upbeat, and given the breadth and depth of our franchise, we have a pretty good
barometer. From everything we see, the U.S. consumer remains very healthy.
Now turning to Page 6 on the Corporate & Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $2 billion and an ROE of
10% on revenue of $7.2 billion for the fourth quarter. And for the year, net income was nearly $12 billion and an
ROE of 16%. In banking, it was a record year for both total fees and advisory fees. We ranked #1 in Global IB
fees for the 10th consecutive year, gaining share across all regions.
For the quarter, IB revenue of $1.7 billion was up 3%. We saw continued momentum in advisory with fees up
38%, driven by the closing of several large transactions. For the year, we ranked #2 in wallet gaining share.
Equity underwriting fees were down 4% but significantly outperforming the market. We ranked #1 for the year and
the quarter and saw our leadership positions across all products globally, with particular strength in IPOs as well
as in the technology and health care sectors. And debt underwriting fees were down 19% versus a strong prior
Page 2 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

year and secular market. We maintained our #1 brand rank for the year and continues to hold strong lead-left
positions in high-yield bonds and leveraged loans.
Moving to Markets. Total revenue was $3.2 billion, down 6% reported and down 11% adjusted for the impact of
tax reform and a slight off margin loan loss last year. A confluence of factors throughout the quarter, including
trade, concerns around global growth and corporate earnings, fears of lower mortgage fares as well as other
negative headlines caused spikes in volatility, which were amplified by [markets' bad debts and] liquidity.
And although we saw decent client flow, rates rallied, spreads widened and energy prices fell significantly, all
against general market condition that was anticipating a strong end to the year.
As a result, Fixed Income Markets, in particular, were challenging, with revenue down 18% adjusted. Weaker
performance across Rates, Credit Trading and commodities was partially offset by good momentum in emerging
markets. Equities revenue was up 2% adjusted, a solid end to a record year.
Prime continued to do well, but we saw clients deleveraging over the course of the quarter, and cash and
derivatives were solid in the tougher environment.
Treasury Services revenue was $1.2 billion, up 13%, driven by growth in operating deposits as well as higher
rates but also benefiting from fee growth on higher volumes. Securities Services revenue was $1 billion, up 1%.
Underlying this was strong fee growth and a modest benefit from higher rates, together being substantially offset
by the impact of lower market levels and the business exit.
Credit Adjustments & Other was a loss of $243 million, reflecting higher funding spreads on our derivatives.
Finally, expense of $4.7 billion was up slightly, with continued investments in technology and bankers and
volume-related transaction costs, partially offset by lower FDIC charges and lower performance-based
compensation. The comp-to-revenue ratio for the quarter and for the year was 28%.
Moving to Commercial Banking on Page 7. The Commercial Bank reported net income of $1 billion and an ROE
of 20% for the fourth quarter. And for the year, $4 billion of net income and an ROE of 20%.
Revenue of $2.3 billion for the quarter was down 2% as the prior year included a tax reform-related benefit.
Excluding this, revenue was up 3%, driven by higher deposit NII.
Gross IB revenue of $600 million was down 1% year-on-year but up 4% sequentially on a strong underlying flow
of activity, particularly in M&A. Full year IB revenue was a record $2.5 billion, up 4% on strong activity across
segments, in particular, middle market banking, which was up 8%.
Deposit balances were up 1% sequentially as client cash positions are seasonally highest towards year-end,
although down 7% year-on-year, as we continued to see migrations of nonoperating deposits to higher-yielding
alternatives. We believe we are retaining a significant portion of these flows.
Expense of $845 million was down 7% year-on-year as the prior year included $100 million of impairment on
leased assets. Excluding this, expense was up 5%, driven by continued investments in the business, in banker
coverage as well as in technology and product initiatives.
Loans were up 2% year-on-year and flat sequentially. C&I loans were up 1%, reflecting a decline in our
tax-exempt portfolio, given tax reform. Adjusting for this, we would have been up 4%, which is still below the
industry as we focus on client selection, pricing and credit discipline. But keep in mind in areas where we have
chosen to grow, such as in our expansion market, we are growing at or above industry benchmarks.
CRE loans were up 2%, also below the industry, as we've proactively slowed our growth due to where we are in
the cycle through continued structural and pricing discipline and targeted selection of new deals. Underlying credit
performance remains strong with credit costs of $106 million, including higher loan loss reserves, largely due to
select client downgrades.
Moving on to Asset & Wealth Management on Page 8. Asset & Wealth Management reported net income of $604
million, with a pretax margin of 23% and an ROE of 26% for the fourth quarter. And for the year, net income was
nearly $3 billion, pretax margin at 26% and an ROE of 31%.
Revenue of $3.4 billion for the quarter was down 5% year-on-year, with the impact of current market levels driving
lower investment valuations and management fees as well as, to a lesser extent, lower performance fees. These
were partially offset by strong banking results and the cumulative impact of net inflows.
Page 3 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Expense of $2.6 billion was flat as continued investment in advisers and in technology were offset by lower
performance-based compensation and lower revenue-driven external fees.
For the quarter, we saw net long-term outflows of $3 billion, with strength in Fixed Income more than offset by
outflows from equity and multiasset products. Additionally, we had net liquidity inflows of $21 billion.
For the 10th consecutive year, we saw net long-term inflows of $25 billion this year, driven predominantly by
multiasset and, in addition, saw $31 billion of net liquidity inflow this year.
Assets under management of $2 trillion and overall client assets of $2.7 trillion were both down 2% as the impact
of market levels more than offset the benefit of net inflows. Deposits were flat sequentially and down 7%
year-on-year, reflecting migration into investments, and we continue to capture the vast majority of these flows.
Finally, we had record loan balances up 13% with strength in global Wholesale and mortgage lending.
Moving to Page 9 and Corporate. Corporate reported a net loss of $577 million. Treasury and CIO net income of
$175 million was up year-on-year, primarily driven by higher rates. Other Corporate saw a net loss of $752
million, including on a pretax basis, funding of our foundation, the corporate philanthropy, $200 million this
quarter, flat year-on-year, and including $150 million of markdowns on certain legacy private equity investments,
market-related.
The remainder is driven by tax-related items totaling a little over $300 million. And within this, there are 2 notable
components. The first is regular weighted tax reserves, and the second represents small differences between the
effective tax rate for each of our businesses and that for the overall company as we close the year. So therefore,
there is an offset across our businesses. Our full year effective tax rate was just a little over 20%, in line with
guidance.
Moving to Page 10 and outlook. We will give you more full year outlook and sensitivity information at Investor Day
as always. However, for now, I did want to provide some color and reminders about the first quarter.
Net interest income will continue to benefit from the impact of higher rates and growth. But quarter-over-quarter,
we'll be negatively impacted by day count, and we expect the first quarter NII to be relatively flat sequentially.
While it's too clearly -- too early clearly to give guidance on fee revenues, it's also fair to say that this quarter,
markets feel calmer and more positive, and Capital Markets' pipelines are strong. So if the environment remains
supportive, we would expect normal seasonal strength in the first quarter.
But I will remind you that the first quarter of 2018 included a $500 million accounting write-off as well as broad
strength in performance. Expect expense to be up mid-single digits year-on-year, obviously, market-dependent,
primarily annualization effects.
And finally, as I said, we expect credit to remain favorable across products.
So to close, while the Markets in the fourth quarter were more challenging, we should not lose sight of the fact
that 2018 was a strong year, indeed, a record for revenue, net income and EPS, both reported and adjusted for
tax reform. Fundamental economic data remains supportive of continued growth, and we're generally constructive
on the outlook for 2019. We have good momentum coming into the year, and the company and each of our
businesses are very well positioned.
With that, operator, we can open up the lines to Q&A.
Questions and Answers
OPERATOR: Our first question is from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
ERIKA NAJARIAN, MD AND HEAD OF US BANKS EQUITY RESEARCH, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH, RESEARCH
DIVISION: So the way bank stocks have performed, clearly, the investors are starting to worry about revenue
trends near term and, of course, credit, which you addressed. I'm wondering if the revenue trends continue to be
weaker than expected, if the overhead ratio of 57% that you posted in '17 and '18 is something that you could
continue to level off to. Or will the investment horizon be more of a dominant factor when we're thinking about the
overhead ratio?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would say a couple of things. The first is just to remind you that '17 and '18, I would
look at our GAAP rather than a managed basis because of the adjustments to our revenues from tax reform. So -but that said, we have -- while we don't set expense targets nor do we set overhead ratio targets, we have given
you some outlook that would suggest that we continue to believe that a combination of revenue growth and
Page 4 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

expense discipline, notwithstanding the investments that we've been making, we should see our overhead ratio
continue to be stable to trending down to the kind of mid-50s, so 55-ish percent. Obviously, the timing of that will
depend on rates in Markets and everything else. So we would expect to continue to deliver positive operating
leverage on higher NII, on growth, if nothing else, and continued solid growth in fees. Clearly, in any 1 quarter,
you can have pluses and minuses that can be market-dependent, but generally, over time, we would still expect
those trends.
ERIKA NAJARIAN: And just as a follow-up question, the market is also thinking that the last rate hike from the
Fed was December. And I'm wondering how we should think about the dynamics of net interest income and, more
specifically, net interest margin and deposit pricing if December was, indeed, the last rate hike for some time.
MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say, first of all, just to say that the question mark about whether that's a pause or a
stop, is it the end of a cycle, we don't think so. We think the outlook for growth in the economy is still strong. The
consumer's still strong and healthy, and we're expecting to still see maybe slower but still global growth going
forward.
Having said that, just as a general matter, you've seen through our earnings at risk that as we have put more and
more of the benefit of past rate hikes in our run rate, each incremental hike from here has, whilst it's still positive,
significantly lower sort of incremental NII drive, and that the front end skew is a lower percentage. So it's not
nothing, but clearly, lower front-end rates or lower long end of the curve or a flatter curve, all other things would
be, net, modestly negative. But against that, you kind of pointed out the potential for this to lead to lower or slower
reprice. And so as the Fed pauses, it is fair to say there could be an offset from lower reprice as people digest the
data and understand whether this is a pause or not. We would still look at -- we've delivered $4.3 billion of NII
growth in 2018. We'll still benefit in 2019 from the annualization effects of the higher rates we've already had as
well as solid growth. So while you can't expect 2019 over '18 to be at that level, it would still be strong NII growth
year-on-year.
JAMES DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: And I would say the why is equally, if not,
more important than the what. So if you -- if it is a pause because you're going to go into a recession, they're
going to reduce rates, that, obviously, is very different than if it's a pause, economy is strong, and they raise rates.
MARIANNE LAKE: Right.
JAMES DIMON: You know which one you would choose.
MARIANNE LAKE: Right. And if this were the end of a cycle, it's no cycle we've ever seen before. So in that
scenario, if terminal Fed fund rates are 2.5% -- no, 4.5%, 5%-plus, I think we've never seen that movie before, but
that's not our central case. And by the way, the House did a research view. We'd still need to see incremental
hikes this year, if not in the first half, in the second.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL, RESEARCH ANALYST, THE BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP
INCORPORATED: Maybe a question on the Card business. There has been chatter about sort of pulling back on
rewards to kind of focus more on profitability. I guess, how do you think about the strategy in cards right now?
And can that -- I think the revenue yield in the Card business was up 7 bps to 11.57. Can that go higher from here
as you maybe pull back in rewards?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I would say that when we think about the product, continuing what we have in the
construct, rewards is a very important part of driving engaged relationships with our customers. Customers are
very attuned to it and are looking for value in the product, value and simplicity and ease of use, are the 3 things in
the products that we deliver. And so for us, engaged relationships drive profitability. This is still a very profitable
business. And so while we'll always make adjustments to our offerings, it's not the case that we are looking at a
meaningful pullback in rewards. And if you think about things like Sapphire Banking, where we're looking to bring
the impact of our products together, we're continuing to offer rewards-based incentives to drive engagement with
our customers.
So we think it's a solid strategy, a business that already has good returns. It's fair to say that we've seen a lot of
competitive response and competitive products in the marketplace that are driving higher rewards offerings too,
and we've not seen that lower our ability to net acquire new accounts. So we feel great about the value
proposition, the simplicity and the compelling products that we have.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL: Okay. So we think about...
Page 5 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MARIANNE LAKE: By the way, it's a very profitable business.
JAMES FRANCIS MITCHELL: Right. And so we think about still seeing decent growth, how do we think about
Card losses, specifically, this year? You seem pretty optimistic on credit. Do we -- should we still expect some
seasoning? Or do you think the macro trends are that positive that we hold steady? How do you think about credit
in Cards?
MARIANNE LAKE: So I think that the macro trends are definitely positive, so they are creating tailwinds. But it's
also true we talked about the fact that if you go back to 2014, '15 that we had expanded our credit box, we had
expanded it intentionally at higher risk-adjusted margins. But over the course of the last couple of years as we've
experienced outperformance, we've done sort of surgical risk pullbacks, and we've amended our collection
strategy, all of which have led to a charge-off rate for the fourth quarter in '18 that's down slightly year-on-year
and for the year, that's at 310 basis points, which is reasonably meaningfully below our expectations even as late
as the end of last year.
So we feel great that, that kind of loss trend at that 310, maybe a little bit higher, is something we should look
forward to, at least into 2019, and it will be helped by a supportive macro environment. And we are seeing -- if you
unpick all of our trends, you see the phenomenon of 3 vintages. You'd see the mature vintages that continue to
be stable to grinding lower in terms of delinquencies and loss rates. You'd see the older expansion vintages that
have passed their peak delinquencies that are trending to a more stable lower level. And then you do have,
obviously, with new acquisitions, a cohort that are still seasoning. That will continue, but net-net, we're expecting
relatively stable loss rates at levels similar to 2018.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Saul Martinez of UBS. Our next question is from John McDonald of
Bernstein.
JOHN EAMON MCDONALD, SENIOR ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO., LLC., RESEARCH
DIVISION: I'm just wondering on the Markets commentary. Obviously, super early in the quarter, but you
mentioned things feeling better. Can you just talk about seasonality there, but also just what feels better so far?
And then also in the fourth quarter, what you saw in the leveraged lending market? How much did you have to
take in terms of maybe marks and leveraged loans, and home deals? A little bit of color there would be helpful.
MARIANNE LAKE: Sure, okay. So I would say that obviously the fourth quarter was challenging, and there was a
lot of market moves, a big sort of broad sell off. And at that point, there were elevated concerns around trade,
global growth beta was causing concerns. There were concerns that the Fed was going to continue to be hawkish
and not necessarily as responsive to some of the things the market was worried about. So there were a lot of
negativity, we think too much negativity priced into the fourth quarter. And it started to change a bit when we saw
the first really strong unemployment print, which reminded people that there's a very long distance between 3%
growth and a contraction. So yes, we could see slower growth but still growth in the U.S. and across the globe.
A slightly more constructive narrative on trade, and that continues to broadly progress, we hope and believe, in a
positive direction. A more dovish outlook from the Fed, the potential for there to be pauses in rates, all being
relatively supportive. And the fact that a lot of people were on the sidelines through the fourth quarter, and
investor appetite is out there for good value where it can be found. So I would say just early days in the first
quarter. There are still, obviously, risks to the outlook. And any of those things could go in a worse direction. But
so far, things just feel a little bit more positive, and that's constructive. And therefore, you would hope to see
normal seasonal strength in January.
On leveraged loans, look, so let's just start diving into the sort of potential for there to be hung bridges. It's true,
that there was a significant market correction with spreads widening across high-yield bonds and leveraged loans
in the fourth quarter. Clearly -- stepping back, while the industry leveraged finance commitments are up, they are
materially down from before the crisis, and very different. So credit fundamentals look pretty good.
Having said that -- and by the way, we passed on a lot of deals in the fourth quarter. We've maintained our sort of
protection in terms of flex pricing and flex protections. And as a result, the more maturity of our bridge book has
still got decent cushion. And that's not to say that there's no deal that have the potential for there to be net losses
after fees, but nothing that we would consider to be significant and nothing in the fourth quarter. I would also say
that coming back to the third quarter that, actually, the market could be quite constructive for Fixed Income into
the third quarter, given a more dovish spread, supporting corporate margins, corporate default rates are going to
stay pretty low, and we do have time. So none of the deals that we have need to be brought to market in a hurry,
and the market is moving in a positive direction.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Al Alevizakos of HSBC.
Page 6 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

ALEVIZOS ALEVIZAKOS, ANALYST, HSBC, RESEARCH DIVISION: I, again, want to focus a bit on the Markets'
performance. You pretty much mentioned light weakness across-the-board in credit, in FX, in rates, which I
assumed likely is the case. First of all, I want a bit of an outlook on how you think rates will perform now that
volatility has picked up. And more importantly, you mentioned strength in emerging markets. Can I ask whether
that was primarily in Asia or Lat Am?
MARIANNE LAKE: So it's no good of a conserve, talking about how we think things are going to pan out in the
first quarter, other than just the general comments I've already made, which is the environment should be more
constructive, and we are expecting decent volatility and client activity. And we'll see how that pans out. With
respect to emerging markets, Latin America was a big piece but Asia, too.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Mayo of Wells Fargo Securities.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO, SENIOR ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC, RESEARCH
DIVISION: Can you hear me?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: I guess I'm a little torn between the year and the quarter, so I'll just ask it to
Jamie. Jamie, it seems like you guys are very happy with the year, with all the record revenues and earnings. But
the fourth quarter, are you happy with the fourth quarter given expenses, credit fees?
JAMES DIMON: I am fully happy with it. The franchise is strong.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: We're investing in new products and services, but we're not immune from the weather, volumes
and volatility. We're not immune from market prices and assets going up and down. And I like the loans up 6%,
assets up sub-10%, long-term flows up. I like the fact that credit cards spend is up 10%, merchant processing is
up 17%. Shares in almost every business market, shares have gone up. That's what I look at.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: I really don't pay that much attention to being buffeted a little bit by the fact that the volumes are
low in the last 3 weeks of December. I honestly could care less. And I look at more like in Equities, we've gained
share, and we're now bumping up to #1, those folks have done a great job, of course, cash derivatives, prime
broker, et cetera. And Fixed Income, we've maintained our share, and we're adding products and services around
the world and...
MARIANNE LAKE: In '19, we'll gain share.
JAMES DIMON: We don't know what's going to happen next quarter, and I don't care.
MARIANNE LAKE: And we take the same position. Like, we had strong first half of the year. And we said, long
may it continue, but it may not, and 1 quarter doesn't make a trend. And so we don't really react to the sort of
micro even though it was driven by the macro. The real underlying business drivers continue to be strong. And
even in those businesses, we are holding leadership positions and gaining share. And so this too will pass, and
things will continue to move forward in a constructive manner.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: Well, as a follow-up, let's talk about the weather. So the weather was lousy at the
end of the year, and Jamie, you were just appointed to your third year as Chairman of the Business Roundtable.
So in that role, what are you doing to help JPMorgan and, I guess, the other banks in terms of China, the
government shutdown, immigration, some of these headline issues that Marianne talked about having hurt the
CIB in the fourth quarter?
JAMES DIMON: Yes. So December was terrible, but if we look at January, you have half of it back generally, in
spreads, in Markets and stuff like that. And as BRT, I don't do anything to benefit JPMorgan. That's about public
policy that's good for the growth of America in total, I've very specifically stayed away from doing any about banks
there. But the BRT does take up trade, and we are supportive of the fact there are serious issues with China.
We'd like to see the trade deal get done. It looks, to us, like they are marching along at least to this March 1
deadline date that they'll have -- enough will be done to kind of get an extension and then, hopefully, complete the
deal.

Page 7 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

We would like to see immigration reform. So proper border security, allowing people who have advanced degrees
to stay here, having the DACAs stay here, having more merit-based immigration and having some path to
citizenship, that is the BRT position. We want more innovation. We'd like to reduce regulations at the local and
federal levels that stop small business formation. So if we look at the BRT, there are 10 verticals around it, and
we try to do things that are good for the growth of America. And bad policy can slow down the growth of America.
As I pointed out over and over, it takes 12 years to get the permits to build a bridge. I mean -- and it took 8 years
to put a man on the moon. It is time that we reform ourselves and not blame anybody else for own lack of -- that
we don't have kids getting out of school with educations, whether they get jobs, that our innovation has slowed
down, the government R&D spending is down. I always think it's looking at yourself, what can you do better, and
there's plenty this country can do better to help growth over the long run. It's not about helping it next quarter.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR, SENIOR MD & SENIOR RESEARCH ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI INSTITUTIONAL
EQUITIES, RESEARCH DIVISION: A follow-up on John's question earlier on leveraged lending. On Slide 24, you
see the balance in loans held for sale go from, like, $6.5 billion to $15 billion. I heard your comments on marks.
I'm assuming that, that is just a disruption, and you go back towards your normal level that's in the pipes and
progress. But I just want to make sure that I'm not making that wrong assumption.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. We're not expecting anything to be elevated.
JAMES DIMON: That number goes up or down over time just based on episodic -- what gets cleared out of the
books. There's nothing in that number that we're afraid of.
MARIANNE LAKE: No.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR: Understood. Curious on the credit and the couple of marks in C&I, I'm just curious on
how much of that is internal versus external rating agency. And I guess, it's a feel for the underlying
fundamentals. How do you know we should treat that as idiosyncratic as you go?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So it's internal, and it's like 5 names, 4 sectors. We know the specifics. It is situationally
specific. Remember, just to give you some context, while those can drive the dollar value, in a regular way in any
quarter, given the size of our portfolio, we might downgrade and upgrade hundreds of individual names based
upon the circumstances. And so when we say that we're looking at this and saying that things are idiosyncratic,
it's not just looking at the 5 situations that drive the biggest dollar value. It's also looking at the hundreds of
downgrades and the hundreds of upgrades and seeing if there's any trends or net worrying signs there and,
honestly, not now. And so if anything, marginally, we had more upgrades. But it's just there's nothing to see right
now in our portfolios, and we're looking.
JAMES DIMON: We look for reasons to put up reserves.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: Not to take them down.
MARIANNE LAKE: Only the paranoid survive. We're more paranoid than you are.
JAMES DIMON: Right.
GLENN PAUL SCHORR: Last one. Obviously, Markets all went down in the fourth quarter, and we had some
freeze ups, if you will, in high-yield first time in like 10 years. But I'm curious how you all think the Markets
functioned in general. In other words, things went down, spreads widened out, there were lots of fear, but it felt
like the plumbing was working, but I don't want to put words in your mouth.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: And half the people weren't even here the last 2 weeks in December.
MARIANNE LAKE: That's right. The plumbing was working. We didn't see any sort of algo or technology issues.
We didn't see any volumes that couldn't be coped with. While I said that there was a little bit of a lack of debt for
the Markets and liquidity, that's typically the case when you'd have one-way trends in a market and a lot of people
similarly situated. So I would say that relatively functioned well but challenging.
Page 8 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Andrew Lim of Societe Generale.
ANDREW LIM, EQUITY ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE CROSS ASSET RESEARCH: I just had a follow-on
question from the vesting high-yield mark's question. I mean, you seem to be getting the impression that there
weren't really much in the way of marks. Is that because you've got very strong hedging strategies in place? And
that the decline in FICC revenues mainly was due to the lower volumes?
JAMES DIMON: There were no marks.
MARIANNE LAKE: There were no marks. In our bridge book right now, we have, for the vast majority, we have
good cushion. And we expect to be able to clear and price through the market. And for anything that's even
borderline, it's completely not material.
JAMES DIMON: And I think some of the field did have a few marks.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: If you look at what happened to flex pricing, like, mid-December when things were at their worst,
yes, some of these things were very close to the end of their flex pricing. And that means they're very close to
having some kind of mark. Of course, since then, the spreads have kind of come back 40%.
MARIANNE LAKE: Right.
ANDREW LIM: Interesting. And then my follow-up question is that also the debt capital markets had a tough time.
But your Wholesale lending, the grids accelerated quite nicely. Did you get the impression there that Corporates
had a general shift there to seek borrowing from banks, such as yourselves, because they were shut out of the
market?
MARIANNE LAKE: I mean, there was an uptick at the end of the year. You saw it in the industry data. We saw it
in our spot data. For us, in fact, it was largely driven by 1 investment-grade loan that we extended at the end of
the quarter. But there was a little bit of an uptick, a little bit more in terms of average advancing on the balance
sheet, but nothing I would call...
JAMES DIMON: (inaudible)
MARIANNE LAKE: No. Nothing that I would call unusual or a trend. We didn't have to take down things that
would've otherwise not cleared the market.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR, MD IN EQUITY RESEARCH, DEUTSCHE BANK AG, RESEARCH DIVISION: I want
to circle back on the expense flexibility. I think in your base case, you're pretty clear that you're targeting positive
operating leverage and moving down the efficiency ratio to the mid-50s. But what are some of the expense
flexibility? And where would it come from if the revenue is light? I think in 2018, you accelerated some of the
technology spend given tax reform, you've been opening branches. Some of that stuff obviously can't be pulled
back. But you always talk about some areas of flexibility. So maybe what are those? And if you could kind of size
or help quantify some of the flexibility you have, that would be helpful.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would say, first of all, that you saw that from 2013 through '16, we had a pretty
structural expense reduction program associated with simplifying our businesses. So in terms of the low-hanging
fruit and things like that, we would say largely that's been harvested. We are always looking to generate core
operating efficiency, so that we can absorb growth. And when we are investing in technology data, one of the
reasons to do it, customer satisfaction, product innovation aside, is for efficiencies. So we are seeing some of that
come through. We'll continue to drive that down.
JAMES DIMON: But the efficiencies and the investments are all in the number that Marianne gave when she says
up 5%.
MARIANNE LAKE: That's right.
JAMES DIMON: Roughly mid-digit for that.
MARIANNE LAKE: And the way I would say it is that we continue to drive for expense discipline. But as long as
you feel, as we do, that the decision criteria that we use to determine the investments we're making, which we
Page 9 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

think are strategically important to the long-term growth of the company and the profitability of the company,
supporting our clients, if those are good decisions for long-term growth, while we could obviously make changes,
we would not look to do that. And so marketing expense, for example, is one area where you would say there is
pretty sizable and immediate flexibility, nevertheless, when we invest in marketing, we're driving new accounts
and engage customers that drive long-term growth. So we invested through the cycle. We think it sort of
differentiates our long-term performance, and we'd like to continue to do that. 2019 over '18, you wouldn't expect
to see necessarily the same clip-ups that you saw last year. We did accelerate investments in '18. So more of the
growth will be revenue-related but still decent investments and the opportunity still good to do that.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR: Okay. That's helpful. And then just on a sidebar here on the reserve build as we think
about credit quality, are we just in the period now where we should assume kind of some reserve build, consistent
with loan growth each quarter? Or was this just a quarter where you had a couple of the lumpy that really drove
it? I guess, what I'm getting at is last quarter, you had...
JAMES DIMON: We had a pretty good model.
MARIANNE LAKE: Sorry, keep going.
MATTHEW D. O'CONNOR: I guess what I'm getting at is, like, are we at the point where, like, just a couple of
lumpy loans is going to drive a few hundred million reserve build? Or is it just maybe this is a bit unusual still?
MARIANNE LAKE: So first of all, I just want to sort of point out that in the Cards space, we hope we continue to
grow healthy mid-single digits. There's seasonality to Cards' balances and losses, so you typically see reserve
builds in the second half of the year. That's what we saw this year and, actually, a little bit lower year-on-year than
last. And in the Wholesale space, you're going to see some things will be a bit lumpier and episodic, given the
nature of the loans that we have. I wouldn't necessarily say that we expect to see a trend of significant reserves,
but we've been flattered by recoveries and releases over the course of the last couple of years, partly or in large
part, at least earlier, releasing reserves we took on energy when the energy went through the downturn. And so
we'll have some downgrades. We might have some releases. I would, net-net, think that as we grow, we would
build but not disproportionally. And remember, we're arguably at the best point in the cycle. So Jamie mentioned it
earlier, to the degree that we have the flexibility, we are making sure that we're reserved accordingly.
OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Saul Martinez of UBS.
SAUL MARTINEZ, MD & ANALYST, UBS INVESTMENT BANK, RESEARCH DIVISION: A lot of talk on
macroeconomics and the policy backdrop and volatile markets. But as you mentioned earlier, you guys are in a
pretty unique position in that you have pretty consistent dialogue with a lot of economic agents, whether it's
corporates, governments, institutional investors and whatnot. But just a sense of what your clients are saying,
what are they concerned about? Is there any concern on your part that some of these issues have sort of a
self-fulfilling effect in that it does end up leading to actions that precipitate a downturn or a recession?
MARIANNE LAKE: So I mean, I think that we would look to the sort of macroeconomic data, which is still
generally supportive, and say things should be good. But for sure, investments is not immune to external factors.
And so manufacturing data has been a little weaker. I would say, CapEx is sluggish on fears around global
growth. Government shutdown and trade are not particularly helpful. Uncertainty is not good for anyone. So
there's no doubt that as things continue, if there's a level of anxiety and uncertainty, it's just not constructive for
confidence, and confidence begets stronger or less strong markets. So I wouldn't say that I think it's clear and
present danger, but I think we should be extremely careful because sentiment, particularly consumer sentiment,
will be incredibly important. And right now...
JAMES DIMON: Pretty good.
MARIANNE LAKE: It's good, right, sentiment in consumer. And we just got back some sentiment from a whole
bunch of our middle market companies that while neither are at their high, they're still very high.
SAUL MARTINEZ: Right. Okay. That's helpful. If I could just ask about loan growth and just a more broad
question about your ability to continue to outpace the industry, and I suspect we'll get more color at Investor Day.
But just, I want to get your sense of the sustainability of growth. And you mentioned on the commercial side,
maybe you scaled back a little bit, maybe we're late cycle. But where do you feel like you can continue to outgrow
the industry? Where do you feel like maybe it's time to scale back on risk a little bit?
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So I mean, I think it's an incredibly nuanced question because, in general, Home
Lending is -- has a challenging market backdrop. For us, it's A Tale of 2 Cities. We're doing quite well and gaining
Page 10 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

a bit of share in the kind of retail purchase market, and we're holding our sort of pricing discipline in corresponder
and losing share there. So there's a challenging market backdrop Card was doing well at, and it's a factor of all
things we talked about, our investments in digital, product, rewards, all of the above. So we would like to believe
that we'll continue to hold our own there.
Auto is extremely competitive. We play in prime, superprime space. And we're seeing competition from people
who have different economic drivers in our sight, credit unions and captives, and so we're willing to lose share to
maintain returns there.
You bifurcate C&I, we're growing in line or better than the industry in our expansion markets where we've been
making the investments, where we've been adding specialized industry coverage, and we'd like to see that
because of the investments we're making. But in mature markets, we're, again, being pretty prudent, I wouldn't
call it tightening but being very selective. Commercial Real Estate, particularly construction lending, yes, we are
tightening. We are being very cautious about new deals and selective about them. So it isn't the case anymore
that we would say we are seeking to grow, although we ever were, loan growth is an outcome of a number of
factors, mainly the strategic dialogue with our companies but also the environment we're in and it's extremely
nuanced. And in many of our businesses, we're going to protect profitability and credit discipline over growth at
this point.
JAMES DIMON: So let me just reemphasize that. We tell our management that we have no problem seeing loan
books shrink.
MARIANNE LAKE: Correct.
JAMES DIMON: We are not going to be sitting here ever in our lives and say, "You've got to grow the loan book.
You've got to show loan growth." Remember, Warren Buffett used to say in the insurance business, sometimes,
during a lull in business, you're better off with the sales force go play golf than to make new loans. We are not
going to be stupid. And the other thing you have to always keep in mind, it's not the loan. It's the relationship we
look at in total. And so when it comes to middle market or all these other things, there are reasons that we stay in
a business knowing there's going to be a cycle, and we're not going to be children when there's a cycle. We know
that losses are going to go up.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
BETSY LYNN GRASECK, MD, MORGAN STANLEY, RESEARCH DIVISION: Are we playing golf all day yet? Or
is that still far away?
JAMES DIMON: Credit is pristine. Mortgage credit is pristine. Middle market is pristine. Underwriting standards
are pretty good, other than a few little pockets that Marianne has mentioned. And -- but we saw people stretching
in Auto. We saw some stretching in -- we're not in the subprime credit card, but a little bit or few stretching that's
in. Leveraged lending, we're not worried about our loan book. I think you can have a logical conversation with kind
of the nonbank loan book, but that's not our concern, and it is what it is at the time, so.
MARIANNE LAKE: And I think where businesses are notably a little bit less relationship-driven. So think about
kind of low loan new relationships Commercial Term Lending, Real Estate Banking, mortgage, to a lesser degree,
Auto, we are seeing we are losing or ceding share where it makes sense to do it.
JAMES DIMON: Yes. And competition, as we mentioned before, is back everywhere, and that's a good thing for
America. That means the pricing is a little tough, and that you have to compete and...
BETSY LYNN GRASECK: Yes. So we're still off the golf course. All right. That's good. I just wanted to understand
a little bit more on the expense side. I know it was -- even with the weather, you guys put out a 14% ROTCE,
which is obviously best-in-class. The question is on the expenses, there's flexibility there. But yet, I know you've
guided to up single digits in 1Q '19. Based on the prior conversations, it seems like 1Q might be an aberration of
mid-single digits? Or should I take that, that's kind of the run rate you're expecting for the full year? So why would
1Q be a little bit different, I guess, is really the question.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I wouldn't fully annualize the first quarter, but think about we've added bankers and
advisers across our businesses. So you're going to get some annualization impact, particularly first quarter into
first quarter. We had added more and more as the year progressed. Similarly, something like Auto lease where
we grew our Auto lease business revenues and expenses strongly in 2018, and that will be in our run rate in the
first quarter, so front office, Auto lease. Some of the technology investments we've been making, the
Page 11 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

annualization of those will be more pronounced first quarter to first quarter than fourth quarter to fourth quarter
because many of them were in our run rate in the fourth quarter.
And then outside of that, there's a bit more in Real Estate as we sort of execute on our head office strategy and
then marketing, foundation completion, those things -- there will be timing. So the first quarter will be higher. I
wouldn't annualize it. We are going to see, might see growth year-over-year, much more because of revenue
growth than because of investments that grows year-on-year, not the same level as last year. And we'll obviously
give you a lot more detail and insights and thoughts on ranges and everything at Investor Day, clearly.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Brian Kleinhanzl of KBW.
BRIAN MATTHEW KLEINHANZL, DIRECTOR, KEEFE, BRUYETTE, & WOODS, INC., RESEARCH DIVISION:
Marianne, just a quick question on the balance sheet. I'm sorry if you gave this already, but can you kind of walk
through the idea of lowering down the deposit with banks and kind of moving into repo what you saw in the
quarter? And then kind of is that just something that was temporary? Is it expected to reverse in the first quarter?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I mean, it's fair to say that money market rates traded above IOER throughout the
fourth quarter and more pronounced at the end of the quarter. And so through the quarter and at year-end, we
were able to take advantage of the market opportunity to move out of cash into cash alternatives, think reverse
repos and short-duration assets. And so for us, it was yield-enhancing opportunity to redeploy cash and a mix
change rather than adding duration. And that continues to be the case into the first quarter. It contributed to our
NIM expansion in the fourth quarter. We continue to have a bit of that mix shift in the first quarter, and it's a
market opportunity.
BRIAN MATTHEW KLEINHANZL: And then a separate question. I know it's not a big revenue driver anymore, but
within the Mortgage Banking, you had a negative gain on sale in the quarter. If you can just give us some color
there what drove a negative gain on sale.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So in the quarter, as we were looking at optimizing our balance sheet, we actually did a
sale of conforming loans to GSEs of about $5 billion. The impact of that was to have a loss on the sale of the
portfolio given that they did originate it at lower rates. So as rates are higher, the fair value of the loans is lower.
Against that, if you were to look at the rest of the P&L, you'll see a benefit in net interest income because the
interest rate risk of that has been transferred to the Treasury Department. So it's geography. It's a loss on the sale
of a portfolio against which there's funding breakage in NII. Just so that you know, when we -- our mortgage loan
with RWA at 15% versus a security at 20% with better liquidity value, we did reinvest some of those proceeds in
mortgage-backed securities in Treasury. So we'll earn that back over time, net to the company.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Steven Chubak of Wolfe Research.
STEVEN JOSEPH CHUBAK, DIRECTOR OF EQUITY RESEARCH, WOLFE RESEARCH, LLC: So I wanted to
start with just a bigger-picture question on credit and the impact of normalization. Certainly, the near-term
guidance sounds quite encouraging. Jamie, you did make a comment recently at an investor conference, talking
about how the banking industry is overearning on credit, not particularly a controversial remark, but in the past,
you guided to a medium-term loss rate, on a blended basis of roughly 65 bps. That does contemplate continued
loan losses in Commercial. And just given that we're late cycle, I was hoping you could maybe speak to your
expectations for what a normalized credit loss rate is for JPMorgan given your current mix and where that might
differ from your medium-term loss guidance.
JAMES DIMON: So we're not talking quarter-over-quarter, we're just talking in general trends...
STEVEN JOSEPH CHUBAK: I'm talking bigger picture.
JAMES DIMON: Right. So Marianne has shown, year-after-year, what are considered normalized losses. And for
years, we've been doing better than that in credit card, middle market, large corporate. Mortgage has come back
down to a very low number. And at one point, it's going to go up. And so I'm not -- we're not telling you it's going
to happen next quarter. But right now, it looks like it's kind of steady state. But at one point, we will not be
surprised to see it go up. I don't know if it is going to be the second quarter, third quarter, fourth quarter. And I
don't know if we're late cycle. We don't exactly know where we are in the cycle. So we just won't be surprised to
see it go up. And the number, we look at it by product. We don't look at it in a total so I can't actually -- maybe
Marianne can relate to the total.
MARIANNE LAKE: No, no. And I think -- I'd hate to say this because I know that you don't want to wait a few
weeks, but we'll have a more complete conversation about kind of range of total outcomes on credit at Investor
Page 12 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Day. But when we gave our medium-term simulation, we said, "Listen, we did a 17% return on tangible common
equity in 2018, and our medium-term guidance is for 17%." We've underearned against our guidance in other
parts of the cycle, maybe we will overearn against it. But NII and reprice lags are higher, and credit is benign. And
at some point, we would expect both of those things to normalize, but we would continue to see solid growth in all
of our drivers. So we don't know when it will be. And actually, we don't see anything that things -- I know you said,
"Is it second, third or fourth quarter?" There's no indication that it's in any of those quarters. But we'll have a more
comprehensive discussion at Investor Day about range of plausible outcomes.
STEVEN JOSEPH CHUBAK: Well, looking forward to that. And just 1 follow-up from me on the IB outlook.
Marianne, I was hoping I could unpack just some of your comments around the IB backlog. You cited that as
being quite strong. But just looking at the individual businesses for M&A, ECM, DCM, especially given some of
the economic pressures outside the U.S., what informs your outlook across each of those?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would say that, first of all, we did see, given the conditions in the fourth quarter, a
number of deals that got pushed from the fourth quarter into the first quarter, particularly in ECM and DCM. In
M&A, there was a little bit more balance. For every deal that got pushed or stopped there, there were more that
came to take its place. But as a result, as we go into the first quarter, pipelines across-the-board are elevated
relative to last year, are pretty strong. And at the end of the day, we talked about it earlier, confidence is still high.
Companies are still motivated to drive growth. And so the environment should be constructive for continued M&A.
Technology, health care, the biotech innovation, technology innovation momentum in ECM that we've been
benefiting from and the IPO pipeline should continue, market-dependent. And notwithstanding December,
actually, a sort of lower outlook for Rates in the U.S. should broadly be a tailwind for Fixed Income in the first
quarter and the first half. So the second half of the year, I think, is going to be determined by how things shape up
over the next several months. But walking into January, again, if the market remains generally constructive, we
should see tailwinds across the businesses.
JAMES DIMON: And I think backlogs, generally, you want them high because that's good. But they're a little like
an accordion, too. They come and go. So that's not a forecast for the future that you'd definitely get those
revenues. They could get delayed, particularly things like IPOs that you've already seen. And the other thing I'd
just point out is a shout-out to the folks in the investment bank. Our market share went up in Europe, Asia, Latin
America and the United States last year. That's what we really look at when we look at the business.
MARIANNE LAKE: 60 basis points, full year.
JAMES DIMON: Well, yes, 60 basis points full year. And first time ever, it went up in all 4 major markets.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
MARLIN LACEY MOSBY, DIRECTOR OF BANKING & EQUITY STRATEGIES, VINING SPARKS IBG, LP,
RESEARCH DIVISION: Jamie, I was glad that you mentioned that we don't know that we are at the end of the
cycle because that's kind of just assumed because of the lapse of time but not really the economic factors and
then the other piece of this is when you look at losses, they tend to be good until they go into recession, then,
they're bad. There is no just kind of normalization. So the question about a normal rate of loss that we really have
2 dichotomized answers. We have a good answer, which is when we're expanding and the economy's stable, and
we have a bad answer when we're in a recession. It's kind of one or the other. I just wanted to see what you
thought about that.
JAMES DIMON: Yes. You're exactly right. At one point, you're going to overearn, and one point, you're going to
underearn. And we try to -- when we look at the business, we kind of try to price through that. So that we -- we're
trying to earn fair returns through the cycle. And I totally agree with you. We know what's going to -- they're going
to change at one point. And we try to do a better job underwriting, too, by the way. We're not -- we do work hard
to make sure we out underwrite other people as best we can.
MARLIN LACEY MOSBY: Which then limits the volatility when you go into that bad period, which is what you
want to do. You underwrite, make sure you're defending against that cycle.
JAMES DIMON: Exactly. And the other one you have is the reserves. You put them up, you take them down. So
our total reserves, what, $14 billion?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, $14 billion and a bit.
JAMES DIMON: Yes. But at one point, they were at $30 billion. So we went from in the Great Recession went
from $7 billion to $30 billion back to $14 billion, and I call it ink on paper.
Page 13 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MARIANNE LAKE: Right.
JAMES DIMON: It doesn't mean anything. It's just -- right. So when you go into that recession, your losses go up,
and your reserves have to go up, and we're completely aware of that.
MARIANNE LAKE: Although I think we have to say for obvious reasons that we wouldn't expect any near-term
recession if there is one to look anything like it did before. And even if it did, given the credit quality of the
portfolios, performance would be not only absolutely better, but we think strong on a relative basis.
JAMES DIMON: So other than -- if you look at the Consumer, that $13 trillion that's outstanding, other than
student, which is fundamentally owned by the government, the mortgage stuff that's been written is prime. So it's
back to $10 trillion, but it's much better than what it was in '07. And I think credit card, I forgot the exact numbers,
it's much more prime than it was in '07. I think Auto is about the same, but Auto actually outperformed in the...
MARIANNE LAKE: More prime.
JAMES DIMON: Yes, more prime and outperformed in the Great Recession. I think people, in general, have done
a better job underwriting middle market and leveraged stuff than they did last time. So I think you don't need -- if
you start a recession soon, going into it, the credit portfolio is much stronger than the last time.
MARLIN LACEY MOSBY: And the follow-up question to that is we talked about Auto and some of those other
places where you saw some of that deterioration, what our model is showing is that actually the discipline and the
reaction time to that deterioration is much quicker than when we saw the 1 to 4 family cycle in the last time, where
you saw a deterioration but growth just kept going. We've had so many banks jump in and say, "Look, we've
already pulled back on Auto lending" or "We pulled back on multifamily." There's already been places where
you've seen that discipline, so that discipline in itself puts a governor on economic growth, which is why we're
having less growth or slower growth, but yet, it also creates a, like you said, a stronger portfolio for that eventual
downturn.
JAMES DIMON: And I agree with that. Lack of discipline, we see, is in student and a little bit in small Commercial
Real Estate.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
GERARD S. CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC, RESEARCH DIVISION: Can you guys -there has been a lot of talk about leveraged loans and how this time around, everything seems to be underwritten
better. Are there any tangible statistics that you can share with us, or maybe on Investor Day you might, to show
us that yes, the leveraged loan portfolio for you guys, in particular, is much healthier than maybe '06, '07? And
then second, on this leveraged loan issue outside the banking industry, what are some of the indirect hits that you
and maybe some of your peers may experience, not from the direct hit of the leveraged loan but for some of the
craziness that's going on outside the banking industry?
JAMES DIMON: So can I just give a big picture of this? I think $1.7 trillion of leveraged loans, okay, so Term A is
about half of that. These are very rough numbers okay? Most of it with banks and obviously safer than Term B. A
big chunk, over, I think, 60% or 70% of the Term B is with nonbanks. And so if you look at the banking system, if
you look at the leveraged lending bridge book in '07, it was over $400 billion. Today, it's number like $80 billion. In
'07, there were commitments and no flex. Almost everyone has plenty of flex now. So when you look at
covenants, there is kind of covenants, but there's flex and there's a whole bunch of other stuff in there. So it's far,
far, far sounder today. Even these CLOs, you look to underwriting the CLOs, they are far better underwritten with
more equity, more sub-debt, more mezzanine and stuff like that. And now go to the shadow banks. They do
things slightly differently. A lot of those folks are -- they're quite bright. They kind of know what they're doing.
Someone's going to get hurt there. And the issue there in the next recession isn't going to be what the loss. And
remember, most of the major banks don't fund a lot of that. We aren't taking huge indirect exposures to that by
funding some of the nonbanks. And I think the issue there is, for the marketplace, is going to be when you have a
real recession, the lender will not be there. So a lot of these borrowers will be stranded. And so -- and that's not -that's an opportunity or a risk or something like that, but it's not -- I wouldn't put it in the systemic category. By the
way -- again, if you go back to '07, we -- it emerged in '07. There was $1 trillion of bad mortgages that were kind
of all over the place, in CLOs, SIBs. There are no SIBs. The CLOs are much smaller. The leveraged lending book
is a much smaller book. Capital liquidity is much higher. So it's nothing like '07. You will have a recession, it just
won't be like you had the last time affecting the banking system. It will affect the banking system. We're a little bit
canaries in the coal mines. We're not immune to what goes on in the economy, and -- but it won't be anything like
you saw last time for most of the large banks.
Page 14 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GERARD S. CASSIDY: No. I would agree with that. And do you think Janet Yellen and other Federal Reserve
officials comments about leveraged lending is more directed to the exposure outside of the banking industry than
inside the banking industry?
JAMES DIMON: Yes, I do.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: Yes. And again, I don't think they were saying it's huge and systemic. They're saying it's
something that they should keep an eye on. And I think that the regulators do keep an eye on that.
GERARD S. CASSIDY: Right. And then just to pivot on a deposit question. Obviously, noninterest-bearing
deposits are tough to keep as rates are going higher. Can you guys give us some color on the
noninterest-bearing deposits? There was, obviously, a small decline. What parts of the business you're seeing
that? And the Fed's unwind of this balance sheet, how much of an impact do you think that might be having on
the noninterest-bearing deposits?
MARIANNE LAKE: So the migration intraproduct from noninterest to interest-bearing is predominantly or largely
exclusively a Wholesale thing at this point. There's not enough rate benefit in the interest-bearing savings to drive
intraproduct migrations. Definitely, some growth outlook in CDs given pricing, but it's Wholesale right now, and it's
mainly rate-related and not balance sheet-related in terms of the Fed unwind.
JAMES DIMON: Could I just make a comment about interest rates and the balance sheet of the Fed? So interest
rates is one thing, but the balance sheet of the Fed, obviously, is causing changes in the flow of funds. It's
causing changes in -- the banks now have options other than reserves at the Central Bank because the 2-year
and 3-year bond yields for corporate -- or government bonds are much higher. Some people are preferring to own
that because they think they are being paid better, no corporate risk. So it changes a whole bunch of fund flows
which concerns people, but I'd say, it's part of the process of normalization.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN, MD AND SENIOR EQUITY RESEARCH ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC,
RESEARCH DIVISION: There were a couple of Fed or regulatory documents out in late December, one is
codifying the 3-year burn in of stated CECL impacts and another one where they're pushing out until '22 on their
own implementation of CECL accounting and the supervisory stress test. Just wondering just any takeaways you
had from reading that and any hopes you might have for just as we get towards some finalization of which way
CECL goes and how it looks, aspirations around that and how that interacts with CCAR and such.
JAMES DIMON: Before Marianne answers that question, I just want to do a shout-out to Jefferies because we
actually look at what everyone does and every Investment Banking group, and you guys did a hell of a good job
at health care this year.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: I'll pass that along, Jamie.
MARIANNE LAKE: Following that -- it's hard to follow. I will say, look, we've been pretty clear about the fact that
our biggest concern around CECL was like properly understanding, not just for us, but for regulators to properly
understand the implications for capital, not only in benign but in stressed scenarios, and what the implications of
the outcome there could have on the willingness for people to extend credit, particularly as cycles age and with
the outlook for volatilities to increase. So having a transition is obviously helpful. You should imagine that we
would likely avail ourselves of that opportunity. That is what it is. For me, the question that needs to be clarified is
if we are to include the impacts of CECL in company-run stress tests, but the Federal Reserve is not going to
include it in the stress tests, we need to kind of understand the interplay between those 2 things, particularly if
that might coincide with a turn in the cycle in actual fact. So I think we're looking for continued clarity from the
regulators about what exactly that means. If we're embedding these assumptions into our stress tests and our
results sooner than they are, how do we think about the implications of that on our distribution plans and capital
outlooks. And importantly, if it really is the case that we'd have to up-front significant amounts of capital for
longer-term or lower-credit quality loans. I do really believe even though the cash flows and the economics
conceptually don't change that you might find people less willing to lean into growth for longer-duration assets if
there are concerns around potential vulnerability, and we should worry about that.
JAMES DIMON: And it will be a big number for like credit card.
Page 15 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: If you put a 3% now on when you build a loan book by $100, the number will be 6%. Or some
number in the future, it would be much higher. So I do think particularly smaller banks will react fully dramatically
on how they're going to run their loan books to do that.
MARIANNE LAKE: So our view is that more analysis needs to be done in the industry about what this looks like. I
hope that what was meant by we should include it in company-run stress tests is for us to collectively learn and
for the regulators to have the time to respond to that. But remember, 2022, considering all the discussion we've
had on this call about the cycle, how long the cycle is, when there's a turn in the cycle, and we could actually face
a stress before that. And so it's great that they are waiting a bit, but it might all be a bit of an academic point
depending on what happens actually.
KENNETH MICHAEL USDIN: Yes. That's a fair point. And Jamie, you've also said in the past that you guys lend
on accounting, right, and don't lend on accounting and lend on economic, right? But there's this kind of challenge
to that, that Marianne just mentioned, about the unintended consequences. And so it'd be interesting to see that if
there is, in fact, the point where banks don't lean in as you just mentioned, Marianne.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: They will change.
MARIANNE LAKE: And we have the luxury or the flexibility of being able to say that we can continue to lend
based upon the underlying economics. But someone who have a differently situated balance sheet and return
profile may not be able to do that.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Mike Mayo of Wells Fargo Securities.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: A follow up on the net interest margin. Two sides to the question. One is
Commercial loan pricing, I guess, it's been kind of brutal. You've had the BDCs, private equity firms, loan funds all
competing. Has there been any let up with some of the dislocation in the capital markets late in the year? And the
other side, retail deposit betas, Marianne, you thought they would get a lot worse. I don't think it's been as bad as
you'd thought. What was your retail deposit beta? And what do you still expect?
JAMES DIMON: Before Marianne answers that, can I just go back to the cyclical stuff? One of the issue -- it's not
just CECL. A lot of things that have been built in since the crisis were really good, but there is more procyclicality
built into it. And so you're going to see in the next downturn that we have a far more procyclical accounting,
liquidity and rules, capital rules and stuff like that, which we don't know the full effect of that. But if I was a
regulator, I'd be very cautious about constantly building procyclicality into the system. And I gave you the
example, our loan loss is going to be $7 billion to $30 billion or whatever they went to back to, $14 billion. It will
affect how people respond in a downturn, and they will -- it will cause people to pull back much quicker than
maybe in the past in total.
MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So just on your question, so corporate loan spreads, I would say we did see a sort of
pretty brutal grinding down in corporate loan spreads. But over the last actually couple of quarters, we saw them
find a bit of an equilibrium and stabilize at levels. So while I would say it's still true to say that there is a lot of
competition, at least in the space in which we're operating, we're seeing spreads at relatively stable levels in the
corporate space. And honestly, I don't remember saying that I thought we would see an acceleration that was
dramatic in retail basis in the short term. I mean, obviously, at some point, when the absolute levels of rates and
the spread between market rates and rates paid gets to a certain level and if normalization continues, we would
expect to see reprice lags sort of catch up. But we have not seen that yet outside of CDs in the retail space right
now.
MICHAEL LAWRENCE MAYO: And the way you calculate it, what was your retail deposit beta this quarter? And
how does that compare to the past?
MARIANNE LAKE: So in checking and savings and lead savings, it's nothing. In CDs, it's something, but it rounds
to a very small number.
OPERATOR: Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.

Page 16 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GERARD S. CASSIDY: Just a quick follow-up, Marianne. Have your investment bankers in the front lines passed
on any concerns about the government shutdown? There has been reports that the SEC is not open. And is that
slowing down the Investment Banking business? And your thoughts on that, please?
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.
JAMES DIMON: Of course.
MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I would say that we've been -- we benefited from the fact that year-end and into the
early part of January and the holiday season have a light calendar, typically in January for IPOs, in particular. But
for sure, if we don't see the ability to get approvals from the SEC on IPOs and, to a lesser extent, some of the
M&A deals that need approvals from government agencies, it will be problematic in the ability to see those activity
levels play out and fees be realized. So I mean, it's one of many things that would behoove us to end this sooner
rather than later.
OPERATOR: And we have no further questions at this time.
MARIANNE LAKE: Thanks very much, everyone.
JAMES DIMON: So thank you.
OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020190116ef1f003xq

Page 17 of 17 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

