Q4 2009 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
11,235 words
15 January 2010
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase fourth quarter 2009
earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. Your line will be muted for the duration of the call. We will
now go live to the presentation. Please stand by. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan
Chase's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Michael Cavanagh.
Please go ahead, sir.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Hi, good morning, everybody. It's Mike Cavanagh.
We'll get started off the presentation as we usually do, so if you start at the beginning of page one I'm just going
to refer you back to the legal disclaimers in the back about forward-looking statements which you've all seen and
heard many times before, so take note of that. So going to page one, let me give you just a few, I'll mention some
firm-wide highlights before I spend the bulk of the time really walking us through the details for each of the
business lines that we have.
So for the full year 2009, we had net income of $11.7 billion, that's earnings per share of $2.26 on record
revenues of $108.6 billion and record pre-tax, pre-provision profit of $67 billion. In the fourth quarter net income of
$3.3 billion, EPS of $0.74 on revenue of about $25 billion.
Skipping down to credit costs, obviously they continue to remain pretty elevated across our consumer businesses
and in that regard we've added $1.9 billion to the consumer loan loss reserve levels bringing the total firm credit
reserves to $32.5 billion or 5.5% of total loans. Obviously a very strong level, and then on the balance sheet and
capital account, Tier 1 common capital continues to grow now at $105 billion or 8.8% as we estimated for the end
of the year which as you recall the level expected at the time of the stress test less than a year ago was 4% so
we're more than double that number obviously.
I'm going to skip now pages two and three which give you the numbers I just described and go straight to the
details of the Investment Bank on page four, and so here you see, we had earnings of $1.9 billion in the
Investment Bank on revenues of about $5 billion in the quarter. I'll take the revenue line piece by piece and give
you a little bit of color there so Investment Banking fee line, $1.9 billion in the fourth quarter. That brings us to
$7.1 billion for the full year which is a record and obviously we've talked about this every quarter how pleased we
are with the leading position we have across all forms of capital raising in the Investment Bank and you can see
that for yourself on this graph we'll show you on next page which I'll pass over.
Moving on to Fixed Income markets. So here, revenues of $2.7 billion in the quarter down from the record levels
we had in the third quarter this year and I'll just say obviously this is reflecting lower overall client volumes that we
saw in the fourth quarter and the continued narrowing of spreads across essentially all products, both of those
factors generally speaking across all products, and nothing really more than that to describe in fixed income
market other than to say that the end of the quarter, particularly December was weaker than the earlier part of the
quarter in terms of very slow client activity levels but we see that at least in the first several weeks of January, we
see client activity levels rebounding from where they were in December which is good.
Equity markets at about a $1 billion of revenue is solid and so just moving on to credit portfolio, here you see a
negative revenue of $669 million and that's on swings to the negatives in credit valuation adjustments and then
the mark-to-market losses on the hedges we put in place against the accrual based loans we have overwhelming
the positive net interest income we have on the loans in the credit portfolio. I'll just say obviously that's a number
driven by the swings in the mark-to-market items. On average you'd expect credit portfolio revenues to be a
couple hundred million positive because over time those mark-to-market swings on CVA and DVA and the
Page 1 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

hedges should average out to zero leaving you with on average a few hundred million positive, so just as you
think about what to expect as quote on quote, normal, there.
Moving on to then that finishes revenue so that gets you to the total $5 billion or so of revenues in the quarter in
the Investment Bank. Moving to credit cost obviously we have a positive contribution of credit costs and that's
really driven in total by the charge-offs but offset by a release of reserves related to the decline in loan balances
both due to run-off of loans and loan sale activities that amounts to the decline you see in end of period loans
there on the left dropping from $85 billion a year ago to $60 billion last quarter to $49 billion at the end of the
fourth quarter so those factors together drive you to the need for less reserves yet we still carry an allowance to
loan reserves in the Investment Bank of north of 8%, and just in terms of non-performing loan balances dropping
from $4.9 billion last quarter to $3.5 billion this quarter, the preponderance of that, three quarters or so, related to
the loan sale activity during the quarter.
Next piece is expenses which are obviously down significantly from a year ago and benefited from the very low
comp to revenue ratio in the fourth quarter of 11%. That brought the full year comp to revenue ratio in the
Investment Bank to 33%. Just remember that level is lowered by a few factors. One is that with our organization,
we have to take into account the compensation that's paid outside the Investment Bank to employees in the
corporate segments and elsewhere that support the Investment Bank activities. We also took some reductions in
the compensation lines offset in part at least the UK tax, and in addition, we've raised the level of equity that's
given in compensation and so that of course lowers the ratio as well so those factors add up to a couple of points
depression and from what that ratio otherwise would be and you can think of this ratio as -- on a go forward basis
of something in the neighborhood of 40% plus or minus so use 40% as your baseline but obviously know that it's
going to be lower than that the stronger the performance of the business and the higher the revenues and the
inverse is true as well. What you've seen us do over the past, so that's the story on comp to revenue and
compensation in the Investment Bank.
So if I just bring all of that together before leaving the Investment Bank and wrap it up, if you look at the $1.9
billion of profits I started with and just do a couple of the adjustments I just described bring the credit portfolio
revenues back to a slight positive, bring the comp to revenue expense rate into more in line with what I just said
for normal of about 36% call it and bring credit costs as opposed to being a positive to a negative or about 100
basis points which is what we always talk about, that would get you to the adjusted profits for the quarter of about
$1.4 billion or $1.5 billion is the way I think about some of those items that I just described.
So moving on from the Investment Bank now we'll just skip ahead to the Retail Financial Services drivers page
and I guess the over arching comment and reminder I'd make here is just a continued great progress and
completion actually of the Washington Mutual acquisition is the ultimate driver of the business over the long
period of time, but just looking at the quarterly stats the only couple of things I'll mention is on the Retail Banking
side the branch business, deposit taking you see as expected some quarter-over-quarter continued decline in
deposits from about 340 to 330 and that's just letting us have the high cost Washington Mutual time deposit CDs
mature and roll off which is good economics for us. Separately, you see the deposit margin expand a little bit as
we continue to be a disciplined pricer of deposits and also see some shift away from higher cost deposit products,
so you see the 299 deposit margin improve a bit to 306 in the quarter.
Moving down into the bottom of the page, the other division within retail is Consumer Lending. You see in total
Consumer Lending originated about $42 billion of new credit and that relates to firm wide fourth quarter credit
origination of $155 billion and as you saw in the press release that's of a total for the full year of $600 billion or so,
and you can just read some of the comments and look at the stats of what went on in each piece, nothing
particularly noteworthy to report there though.
So then if you go to the next slide and just focus on the income statement of retail, I'll just take this again and in
the same two pieces, so Retail Banking in the middle on the left you see net income of $1 billion or so on
revenues of $4.5 billion and that revenue is flat year-over-year. It goes back to the shift to the benefit in wider
spreads from a shift of wider spread products offset by some declines in the fee based side of Retail Banking
getting you to the net income you see there, and then at the bottom, you see Consumer Lending continues to lose
money so in this quarter it was a $1.4 billion loss, two items I'll point out. One is the level of revenue, the $3.1
billion and that's lower than prior periods given the modest level of essentially breakeven $100 million positive on
MSR risk management which had been a big positive in some of the prior quarters, normally is more like what it is
this quarter, and then as well, we had a higher repurchase reserves put up on mortgage repurchase claims.
On the credit side you see $3.94 billion of credit costs and that includes a $1.5 billion addition to the allowance for
loan losses, so now let's just talk about those portfolios for a bit on page eight, same slide we always show you
here giving you a little bit of detail on the top left of just the declining balances you see as these portfolios
Page 2 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

rundown from $101 billion for home equity and so forth. The charge-offs themselves you see are up a little bit
versus last quarter but running in an increased trend that's consistent with the outlook we have given you in the
past and that outlook for $1.4 billion of quarterly losses on home equity in the next several quarters, 600 or so in
prime mortgage and 500 or so in subprime mortgage continue to be unchanged for us as we look ahead.
On the credit impaired side, the WaMu purchased portfolio, there you see we added about $500 million to reflect
our estimate of higher lifetime losses in the sub portfolio of option ARMs.
Card Services on the next slide, you see a net income loss of $306 million compared to a loss of $371 million a
year ago. Credit again continues to be the story, not much different than what we would have expected here. You
see the 8.64% charge off ratio which as we talked about last quarter benefited by about 60 basis points from the
timing of this payment holiday we did and we'll see the other side of that with an elevated charge off ratio next
quarter, but that is continuing to trend to the 10.5% or so charge off ratio that we expect to trend towards in the
first half of 2010, exactly as we previously said, so nothing really different going on than what we've talked about
before in credit here.
On the revenue side, end of period outstandings continue to behave in the same fashion, down a bit
year-over-year and flattish quarter-over-quarter. Sales volume up a bit year-over-year and up 7%
quarter-over-quarter. We think we're gaining share, continue to gain share in card spend but those factors
together with charge-offs are putting pressure on overall outstandings year-over-year and so that amounts to the
modest revenue growth you see of 5% year-over-year.
Moving on to Commercial Banking, the next slide, slide 10, $224 million worth of profits I'll just point out a few
things here. Loan balances of $102 billion on average down a bit from last quarter, so we continue to see weak
demand, we continue to see utilization rates on committed credit lines bounce around their lows, a little bit more
indication that we might have some pipeline activity coming up, we'll have to wait and see and on the other side of
the balance sheet you see liability balances, this is cash and deposits our clients leave with us trending higher
and that leads to the revenue you see above for lending and cash management products and then one other
point I'd make is we talked a lot a couple years ago about the Investment Banking opportunity out of the
Commercial Bank so for the full year 2009 we had just over $1.1 billion worth of revenues, Investment Banking
product related revenues delivered into the Commercial Bank clients and that's a full double of where it was at the
time of the Bank One JPMorgan Chase merger several years back so that's the goal we set and congrats to that
team for getting it done this year.
Credit costs in the quarter high, $494 million and the bulk of the activity there, 70, 80% is driven by vigilance
around making sure our commercial real estate activities are properly written down and that's the driver there.
Continue to have very high allowance for loan losses at the end of it all north of 3% as we ended the year.
Next business, on slide 11 is Treasury and Security Services. Net income down year-over-year substantially and
a bit quarter-over-quarter to $237 million. If you look at the liability balances line you see the significant decline
from the elevated levels we had last year as we experienced a significant influx of deposits in the height of the
crisis, so that as well as the low rate environment we're currently experiencing and the pressure that's putting on
deposit spreads is affecting the revenues here as well as some of the other items I'll let you read, but that
translates into the $1.8 billion or so of revenues down 400 or so from a year ago and translates to the 237 of
profits in treasury and security services.
Last business, Asset Management. Net income of $424 million up substantially year-over-year. Revenues up
versus a year ago 32% and that's on 10% increase in assets under management which are at $1.2 trillion reflect
the higher levels of markets as well as positive inflows over the past 12 months, $28 billion for that period and
continued good investment performance.
Last contributor to the income statement for the company is the Corporate segment so let me just spend a minute
here on page 13. You see Private Equity, we had pre-tax gains of $273 million in the quarter on the overall
portfolio of $7.3 billion translates to net income of $141 million as you see on the left. The next piece is what I call
the real Corporate segment. That's the Treasury bank within the bank and investment portfolio activity as well as
all of the corporate expense, corporate support activities that we manage in Corporate. That amounts to a
abnormally high $1.2 billion in the quarter. Think of that as benefiting from two things. It's been consistently high
for several quarters given the large size of the investment portfolio generating high net interest income but in this
quarter we started to bring the size of that portfolio down and in selling some of those securities which were at
gains, we triggered investment securities gains. We'll probably have some more of that, we know we'll have more
of that in the first quarter as we continue to make some of the adjustments to the investment portfolio but once
you get beyond the first quarter of this year you can expect to see that number be more in the range of $300
Page 3 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

million or so plus or minus but obviously we always talked about Corporate being a vital item and it will certainly
be affected by how we manage the investment portfolio from here forward.
Tax rate, we had a little bit of benefit in the quarter with some one-time items running through. The tax rate for the
Company will revert to what it looked like for the three quarters year-to-date and then obviously the net interest
margin going forward guidance on that is embedded in the $300 million number that I talked about as the forward
earnings in Corporate. So, moving past the P&L to the capital section here, you see on page 14 again the total
capital position of the Company, $133 billion of Tier 1 capital, $105 billion of Tier 1 common, for the 11.1% and
8.8% capital ratios that you see circled there. Just make the point with FAS 166/167 coming into effect this
quarter that will affect us by our estimate of plus or minus 40 basis points or so to the negative so the ratios will
continue to be very strong. We're keeping an eye on all of the future changes that could come a year from now in
terms of market risk rules as well as the further out implementation of Basel III and we're going to spend time, we
feel very comfortable with how we're positioned on the capital front with everything we know but we are going to
make some adjustments when we get to Investor Day to just true-up and adjust the capital allocated to each of
our businesses and bring them in line with our best thinking around that so more to come on that but the work
we've already done substantiates our view we're in a very strong position overall on the capital front.
The next slide I will skip over just gives you a sense for the strong level of loan loss reserves and how the
evolution of non-performing loans ratios relates to that. And then just wrapping it up with the outlook, I'll just
remind folks that effectively nothing is different here than what we said at the Goldman Sachs conference last
month, so read it and you'll see that it's very much in line exactly the same as what we said, so therefore let me
just wrap it up there and Operator, we can open it up to questions.
OPERATOR: John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning Mike. A question on SOP3 portfolio.
What drove your change on the outlook on the option ARM book?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It's just expectations severity levels.
JOHN MCDONALD: Severity?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Yes.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and then for loan loss reserve build and RFS, how do TDRs and modifications
contribute to the loan loss reserve build? Are there some automatic provisioning that occurs when you do
modifications?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: As we've talked about foreclosure delays and modifications, we've tried to be vigilant
both in the way we recognize charge-offs and the way we forecast them to not allow ourselves to get caught
behind in terms of what the expected embedded loss is and so we've factored that into the way we forecast and
put up our reserves. It's nothing automatic. It's just that our forecasting embeds our best expectation of what will
actually happen.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and then the accounting question and the comp ratio on the Investment Bank, the
changes in the mix of compensation, cash versus stock impact your expense accrual comp ratio?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Yes, it did. Increasing the amount of stock in our cash stock tables across-the-board but
especially for higher paid people drove the ratio down by a point or two more than it other wise would have been.
JOHN MCDONALD: Just a point or two?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Yes. There's a series of items I listed earlier, that was one of them that together
amounted to several points but that one piece is a bit of it.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, last question just expense leverage in RFS, with the cost saves from WaMu I would
expect a little bit more of net expense reduction in RFS including your outlook. Could you comment on what some
of the offsets to the merger expense saves are in RFS?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Kind of many of the items that you see on our outlook page it's just a continued
investment in growth of the business away from the shrinkage of WaMu together with continued levels of default
and foreclosure related expenses.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.
Page 4 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with UBS.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, thanks very much. On page 7 on the RFS and the consumer lending
comment, there was a blurb on higher re-purchase reserves. Is that a reps and warranty issue and can we talk
about that issue in terms of what is the magnitude of loans being put back to you all and how big of an issue is it
adding up to be?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It's early on that score. Obviously it's picked up and you read about it in the papers, it's
everyone is looking at all parties in the mortgage chain are taking a look at their rights and looking to bring claims
so it's early days in that, Glenn. I wouldn't be able to give you flat numbers on that.
GLENN SCHORR: How about a reminder on--?
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Glenn, this is Jamie. You're still going to see
negative revenue because of a fairly large number and the reserve for it.
GLENN SCHORR: Reserve for it, okay. That's good and maybe a quick comment on a reminder of if you took a
very general view of your first and second over the past couple of years, what percentage was self-originated
versus wholesale originated because that usually, I don't have concerns over JPMorgan documentation and
dotting the I's and crossing the T's but some of the wholesale stuff seems to be the bigger issue these days.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, are you talking about repurchasing reserves again?
GLENN SCHORR: Yes, well I wanted to get to the reps and warranty issue with some of the bond insurers
coming back to the originators and claiming reps and warranty breaches.
JAMIE DIMON: They're all doing that and is anything that you bought or originated that is subject to some
repurchase reserves. I think you can assume the broker side will be worse.
GLENN SCHORR: Yes. Okay, a quickie on back to that comp issue at the IB. Just what kind of magnitude are we
talking in terms of stock cash split? Is that something that you'd be willing to share in terms of where we came
from, which is where we are and I'm assuming that's more of an ongoing issue as opposed to a one-time event
this year?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, we've always had a high stock component, it's will be a little bit higher this year than normal
and that's why Mike says it's a one or two point swing this year.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Higher than it's been.
JAMIE DIMON: It's basically in line with all of the G20, FSA, IIF, Federal Reserve's, FSVs and all of the other
acronyms you come up with.
GLENN SCHORR: Thanks, and Mike, I don't know if this is too simple of a question, but lots of people starting to
get a little antsy on the rate outlook and I'm not sure how close to the middle you're aligned but I'm curious on
your thoughts on rate forecast and positioning and what is more important is that the actual funds rate or is it the
issue of stopping of some of the purchase programs by the various government entities?
JAMIE DIMON: Our interest rate exposure is high and it's way down, so honestly I wouldn't worry about it that
much and Mike mentioned we're selling parts of the portfolio and reducing it kind of as we speak, but it does not
mean we're adjusting the rates are going up right away. We just position ourselves to protect ourselves from both
higher rates and I think really the far more important thing is volume, it's like is the economy recovering. If the
economy is recovering then business will be much better.
GLENN SCHORR: And Jamie, have you seen enough evidence there because it seems a little bit mixed?
JAMIE DIMON: You know, look. You guys are just as good at forecasting the economy as anybody else and
we've seen delinquencies getting a little bit better, we saw credit card spend be up a little bit. We see, we think
loans in middle market are actually starting to level off and we see small business demand actually go up, so we
don't know if that's because we're trying to generate any bankers but there are signs of good signs out there, but
we don't know.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay, excellent. Thank you both.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America.
Page 5 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Good morning. Was wondering if you could give us a little
bit of color on how we should think about the Investment Bank balance sheet going forward, total assets seem to
have stabilized after falling for four quarters or so but the leverage ratio still runs about a little over 20 times on a
gross basis. So just based on prospects that you see in the business and what you can glean from the BIS
release Basel III that you were talking about should we expect assets to begin to grow again and should we
expect a meaningful increase in the capital that you allocate to that business?
JAMIE DIMON: I think you'll see, I think assets will kind of start a normal growth path at this point, we had a lot of
reduction to the Bear Stearns, some of these illiquid assets which we've sold and certain loans and stuff like that
so I would look at fairly normal growth. Capital will probably go up to $40 billion approximately, equity capital and
Basel III is really early. The tax they just said could have some peculiar effects if you're really going to tax 15
basis points on non-deposit assets and liabilities and then all of a sudden you're affecting repo markets and
matchbook markets so we don't really know the effect of all of that but the underlying business is strong. You can
see a lot of corporations or funding and there's more M&A talk, so the business itself is healthy and the balance
sheet will reflect that to some extent.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: And Guy remember when you think about leverage ratios what we publish in our equity is
equity so think of that as common equity so when you do these comparative ratios, often you're looking at an
attribution, you got to look at an attribution of all of the rest of the long term debt and sub debt and preferreds that
we have in the Company in each of our businesses including the Investment Bank.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: That's fair. Now, as we talk about the assets flattened out but you continued to have a
pretty significant decline in trading VAR. Can you help us understand how to reconcile that? I think it's the first
time that we saw recently a significant decline in the trading VAR even as the assets seemed to flatten?
JAMIE DIMON: If I were you, Guy, I wouldn't focus too much on trading VAR. It's always a good one point
measure day-to-day but not an accurate measure of risk so remember for a lot of products, it's 12 months of
historical volatility of the securities, and that means that every week you're dropping out an old week and you're
adding a new week, so all year or for the most part this year you're adding a benign week and dropping out a
volatile week and that probably accounts for a huge amount of it, and then illiquid assets are down and some of
the more volatile assets are down too.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Great. That's very helpful. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. A couple questions, a couple simple ones
first. On the FICC line are you going to be giving the mark to market numbers, the DVA, CDA components of
that?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: You'll see the stuff in the Q, but we're getting into a normal range, so no need to really
call out the numbers in this quarter.
BETSY GRASECK: So is the normal range 2 billion to $3 billion, is that what you would suggest?
JAMIE DIMON: No, in terms of the P&L swing a couple hundred million each way.
BETSY GRASECK: Oh, no I was talking about the FICC line normal range.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: The fixed income revenues. Betsy, what I said there is we can't predict what the markets
will give but just the point of the $2.7 billion in FICC revenues we had obviously the December slowdown that
we're seeing some reversion to more normal levels of client activity gives you some lift from the levels we ran out
in the fourth quarter. That's the back drop, normalized spreads from earlier in the year together with that and
probably a little bit of uplift from the levels we saw, but we can't really predict the future on that one.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and then the other question I have is just on capital management and I know it's a little
bit complex given the moving parts in the regulatory environment but with NPLs flattening here and with the
reserve builds continuing, at what point do you start and with the assets coming down, how do you think about
what you're going to be doing with the capital going forward? Is there a point at which you say look, even though
the environment is still improving only slightly maybe, you have considerations to raise the dividend and what is
kind of in the way of raising the dividend.
JAMIE DIMON: Let me just refer to one benchmark which is Tier 1 common, okay? That's an 8.8% and it goes
down this quarter by 40 basis points or so because of FASB 166 and it may drop another 30 or 40 in the first
Page 6 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

quarter next year because of new market risk rolls. We don't know that number yet. It could go up or down but
we're still very healthy. At one point we're going to revert to normal growth which will use capital, right? And so
but once you see a recovery, and earnings start to go up and reserves start to come down, there will be plenty of
excess capital and that's when you might see the dividend.
BETSY GRASECK: So you have to wait for just--?
JAMIE DIMON: But the other thing to keep in mind is Basel III which is probably a couple years away, everyone is
going to keep that in mind and how they're looking at the balance sheet because no one wants to be caught short
in capital, particularly if someone is going to be punitive about it.
BETSY GRASECK: So you want a cushion, but as your NPLs are flattening out here and essentially going to be
improving in the not too distant future this is going to become a challenge?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Yes, we're in great shape and we're already thinking about, we've never stopped
investing in people and systems and data centres and branches because we know we're going to have a lot of
capital. There's an inflection point which instead of NPLs and all of these things using up capital, there's an
inflection point at which it's kicking off a lot of capital not just for us but for all banks and particularly when all these
negative accounting things and negative regulatory things go away and earnings go back up and loss reserves
come down. The industry will end up being overcapitalized. Everything is procyclical and the industry will end up
with so much capital and in my opinion that will happen some time in the middle or late 2010.
BETSY GRASECK: So is there anything standing in the way of raising the dividend aside from your opinions and
the Board decision, is there anything that you have to do to raise the dividend aside from that?
JAMIE DIMON: Not really I think we've said we really want to see a real recovery before we do that because we
don't want to have to do this again, just in case you have another dip down here.
BETSY GRASECK: And then on the capital ratios you indicated at investor day you're going to be changing some
of the allocations. Can you just talk a little bit about what you're thinking of doing there?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: I think Jamie, you hit on the big one. We're probably going to take the Investment Banks
capital up from 33 to around 40. We're still working on fine tuning these numbers and most of the other
businesses are probably in the zip code that they belong but there will be tweeks to those kind of levels and the
view will be our best ability to capitalize the businesses unique to their own type of activities under a Basel II type
of regime with strong Tier 1 common type of targets, business by business. That's the framework we're thinking
of.
JAMIE DIMON: And then there's the general one, how much capital, the new real standards which people don't
really know yet.
BETSY GRASECK: Because in the past you've indicated Basel II was going to be a net positive for you.
JAMIE DIMON: It's about a breakeven but if Basel II goes around and Basel II will change.
BETSY GRASECK: Yes, I hear you, thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: We've got plenty of capital but the question is what's the new standard? I mean not only the
capital requirements but the rules adding to more risk weighted assets and more capital but in the old days when
the stress test was placed it was 4% Tier 1 common was you had to be able to maintain through the adverse
case. We have double that. Is that 4% going to be 5% or 6% or 7% and no bank is going to be want to be caught
short of that because the markets and the regulators, and the government has become punitive about that point.
Everyone is going to want to hold more capital.
BETSY GRASECK: Sure. Okay, appreciate it. Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. Just to clarify the last discussion, so you expect NPAs to go
down mid or late 2010? It wasn't clear.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, Mike, we don't know when the recovery is. What I said is I think you'll have an inflection
point where it would generate a lot more capital than we need even after accounting for needing more capital to
make up the accounting change and the Basel II change.
Page 7 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, and just for the quarter--?
JAMIE DIMON: The earnings going up, the balance sheet levelizing and loan loss reserves need to eventually
start to come down.
MIKE MAYO: And for the quarter, I think Mike said you sold $1 billion of NPAs so if you hadn't sold those on a
core basis, NPAs would have been up 4% which is better but still higher, is that math right?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: A little less than that, Mike. I think whatever the decline was in the Investment Bank
which is three quarters of that or so was sales.
JAMIE DIMON: And restructurings. Remember a lot of loans have been non-performing in the large corporate
world get restructured and taken out by DIPs etc.
MIKE MAYO: Okay, the bigger within I guess as relates to the new tax proposed, what are some of the potential
unintended consequences or maybe intended consequences? I mean would you think about delevering some, do
you think about foreseeing core deposits more or would you think about raising money more outside the US?
What are your options to help mitigate the impact of that tax if it gets passed?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, first of all we don't know what the real tax is yet and it seems to cover US and non-US, that
doesn't help you. I think the one unintended consequence in the back of my mind is how it affects the match book,
financing businesses etc. because that really becomes a real cost in a low margin type of business so we'll just
wait and see. We run the business to serve customers and grow. We don't run it necessarily for that stuff so we
really have to wait and see the details of when it all sorts out.
MIKE MAYO: Okay, and I'm not saying I understand that tax either or would agree with it but the bigger picture
question is if you're deemed to be too big to fail and I know you disagree with that but if you were deemed too big
to fail or any other firm were, how should a firm like that be made to pay for that protection?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, again, I think the real important thing is that you really don't believe that anyone can be too
big to fail. Remember the markets never traded financial companies like it was too big to sell, neither the stocks
nor the bonds, they traded with huge spreads and stuff like that, so but I guess the model if you were going to
have something is like insurance, like an FDIC type or something like that and if it comes across as doing
business for certain type companies.
MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisory.
MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY: Good morning. I have one clarification
point and then a larger question. The clarification point is of the securities sold is there a predominant asset
class? This is in the corporate line.
JAMIE DIMON: (Inaudible).
MEREDITH WHITNEY: I'm sorry, I can't hear.
JAMIE DIMON: It's mostly MBS and a couple other things there.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Agency MBS?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, and then my question is we're reaching a critical point in terms of all of the loan
modification efforts and this is an industry question but then how it specifically affects your Company, given the
fact that the industry feedback and statistics on the loan modification efforts are not good, so you question what's
the next initiative and the issue of principal forbearance. How much momentum do you think that has, can you
comment on what stage we are in terms of obviously the extension ends with the last slug is over in February, so
where do you think we are in terms of the governments efforts to influence banks to do certain things?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, remember we do modifications of our own and we do the government modifications and I do
think they're kind of new, it was complex, and I think people will get better at it over time, Meredith. We have not
thought of a better way to do it than loan by loan, which is, does the person want to live there, can they afford to
live there, and we really think that the payment, how much you're paying is more important than principal. Even if
Page 8 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

you are going to do something on principal, to do it right you have to do it loan by loan and it effectively becomes
a similar kind of thing. The difficulty is the loan by loan part and we've asked the government and I think they tried
to streamline a little bit the HAMP programs because there's too much paperwork involved in it so a lot of the
reasons we're not getting to final modifications half the time we don't finish the paperwork, so they were meeting
the lower payments but they weren't finishing the paperwork so we're trying to get better at it, get it streamlined
honestly, we rack our brains to figure out if there's a better way to do it and you can do it more macro than loan by
loan but once you start talking about macro, you're going to get involved in a lot of issues about whether people
live there, whether they have the ability to pay, whether they were honest when they first told people how much
their incomes were, so we're working through it.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, do you get a sense that there's something right behind HAMP that's another
solution from the government or is it more your efforts?
JAMIE DIMON: We're trying to do this, look, we're trying to have ideas and they are trying to have ideas but if we
had a brilliant one we would be very supportive of doing it. We want to do the right thing for the people.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, so a point of clarification on your answer, the issue of principal forbearance is not
something that people should be overly concerned about with respect to reserves and capital for the bank?
JAMIE DIMON: No, I think if there's a macro government force on something like that yes, it could have a fairly
significant effect on loan loss reserves and losses, et cetera.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: But is that a real, any momentum?
JAMIE DIMON: Honestly Meredith you probably know as well as we do.
MEREDITH WHITNEY: I don't know. I can't help myself on that one. Thanks so much.
JAMIE DIMON: Thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks. You mentioned the 40 basis point hit, for 166
and 167 in the first quarter. Is there any impact to the Income Statement or hit to retained earnings that we should
expect?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, because basically, you put up the reserves the stuff is held off balance sheet. That is the 40
basis points and it will add about--.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It's about 7 billion pre-tax of additional reserves and that really drives the decline in
capital that gives you the basis point impact to the balance sheet itself.
JASON GOLDBERG: Will we see that in EPS?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: No.
JAMIE DIMON: It's just an accounting adjustment below the line but it does reduce book capital by the after-tax
amount and there's some other adjustments in there, that's probably about $4 billion of capital.
JASON GOLDBERG: And then to an earlier comment on reserve, I think the comment was you expect reserve
build to I guess cease over the next quarter or two and then come down. Was that the interpretation?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: I made no particular comments in the outlook itself, it's going to be dependent upon
where the economy goes Jason and Jamie just pointed out at some point maybe in the middle of the year you
could get to an inflection point but we're not there yet.
JASON GOLDBERG: And then just lastly, is any chance you could give us more granularity in terms of kind of
what was weak in Q4 within FICC and what is kind of strong year-to-date or is it broad based or there's specific
segments that have been stronger than others?
JAMIE DIMON: FICC was really across-the-board, but there were a couple of small negative one shot items
which I think was clean up, and it's been so far this year is fine. We expect volumes to be good but again, you
guys, you can forecast that as well as we can. You got the same data we get generally industry wide and this
year so far has had a nice start.
Page 9 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JASON GOLDBERG: Helpful, thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. I think the last call you had mentioned that
your plan was to increase investment in the Card business despite the fact that you kind of were planning to still
run hefty losses in the first half of 2010 and it looks like the revenue side came in relatively strong. Could you just
give us an update on your strategic thinking on that business?
JAMIE DIMON: So the financial side before any changes to reserves, varying obviously the cost of credit, we'll
lose $1 billion in the first quarter and in the second. There will be a point in time in my opinion reserves come
down, possibly will go up, so obviously the impact might be different than that. We took this as an opportunity to
design new products and i, if you watch TV at all, you've seen our Sapphire ads, our Blueprint ads, our Ink ads
and the new small business product. We think we have great new products and we're spending the money to roll
them out and the marketing costs a lot of money in this business, you're talking about hundreds of millions of
dollars so you didn't see us reduce marketing expenses, or at least if we did, it's very modest in this recession.
But eventually you'll have a turnaround in the business and good product and good services and we've done what
we can do obviously for the law changes and we'll see a turn in the business.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, thanks.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Richard Ramsden with Goldman Sachs.
RICHARD RAMSDEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, good morning guys. Just a couple of questions. The
first is did the UK bonus tax have any material implications for the tax charge this quarter?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Nothing on the tax side, that's a "when-it--happens" item so it could be first or second
quarter of next year, we'll see, but as I said, the anticipation of that cost took some money out of our bonus
accruals and so you saw that in the comp to revenue ratio.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Can you give us just a rough idea of magnitude on what you think it could be?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, we really prefer to book it but there is not the legislation, it's hard to tell what legal entities of
the people, who it relates to, how it relates, so we can't. But it's not, you're talking about several hundred million
dollars at one point, then it could be more than that, it could be less than that or it depends on how the legislation
turns out. And that would be a first or second quarter item when it's finalized.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Okay, and then the second thing, what drove the decision to sell non-performing assets in
the Investment Bank? Is that going to be an ongoing process or is that kind of a one off clean up process in the
run up to the year-end?
JAMIE DIMON: Those decisions are made asset by asset and like I said some of those was not sales as much as
they were restructurings. So we had non-performing loans and a couple had restructured, raised money and
moved on and the balances come down, they come out of non-performing. We try to make the economic
decision. We don't try to manage the balance sheet or NPAs or something. Everything is economic.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Okay, and then my last question I guess just again back on Basel III. Was there anything
in that proposal that stood out to you as being particularly problematic or nonsensical I guess in terms of grossing
up of derivatives or anything like that in that proposal?
JAMIE DIMON: I separate accounting from capital, the derivatives and stuff like that it wouldn't matter as much.
The initial ones that came out would require a lot more capital so we're double counting a lot of things. And then
the liquidity one, I don't personally understand what they're looking for. Was that a Basel III thing?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: But you know what? I'd put that one in a category of it's years away. It needs to be done right. It's
years away. The industry is going to have plenty of capital before we ever get to those years. But I'm not going to
worry about it that much. But the early indications they put out would be a lot more capital.
RICHARD RAMSDEN: Okay, all right, thanks a lot.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Page 10 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. You mentioned that Middle Market loans are
leveling out and there's early increase in demand of small business. Do you think we'll start to see commercial
loans actually increase in the first quarter or is this just very early indications of those?
JAMIE DIMON: I'm talking about Middle Market now, it's possible, I'd say level out. I'm not sure about an increase
but it's possible and it's really the economy. If you see the economy start to grow, yes, we'll see the loans go up.
The large corporate loans, which are down a lot, that is more bond markets, the companies can finance
elsewhere and they're doing that.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And then the small business side, which obviously was a lot of initiatives in Washington
to get that going, you mentioned increase in demand there. Could that be a driver of volumes overall?
JAMIE DIMON: Say it again?
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Oh, I was just following up on the small business comment, you mentioned a pick up in
demand there and there's a lot of initiatives in Washington to make credit easier for them, there's some tax credit
they're proposing and I'm just wondering how meaningful the pick up in small business demand can be for
volumes overall?
JAMIE DIMON: It was pretty significant quarter-over-quarter in terms of pick up and what I don't know is we're
doing a lot of advertising and adding bankers, so I don't know if the pick up was the whole industry or just us.
When you see other banks report, you'll get a better feel for that. Obviously we've been trying to support in every
way we can the economy and any small business programs and other things that people do would be great. I
think that what's going to drive small business will be the same thing that drives everything else, which is the
return to the health of the economy. That will drive most of these things. And we don't know that anymore than
you do.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, and then just separately, you mentioned there was some clean up within FICC in
the fourth quarter that presumably was a drag. Care to say how much that was in total?
JAMIE DIMON: No. There's so many items that go through something like FICC, but there's a couple hundred
items, couple hundred million dollars maybe. We hope to do better in FICC. I would say it was a little
disappointing this quarter.
MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. Most of my questions have been answered. I just have
one follow-up again related to FICC. So if we expect volumes to increase from the weak volumes in the fourth
quarter, is there anything about spread going forward that makes you think it should tighten even further or would
you say that by the fourth quarter trading customer spreads had sort of tightened to where you think they will go?
JAMIE DIMON: I think you've seen a lot of the tightening. They're back to pretty active markets, tight bid/ask. And
it's different by product but I think you're back to a fairly competitive situation, which is good for the world and the
economy and not necessarily good for the trading books.
ED NAJARIAN: So if we have a fairly reasonably optimistic outlook that the volume will recover from the
depressed fourth quarter levels, you wouldn't say that additional spread tightening would be any kind of an equal
offset?
JAMIE DIMON: No.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mandle with GIC.
RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. First of all I was wondering about the newly proposed whatever it is
tax that we're calling it, but the administration is actually calling it a fee, so I'm wondering what your view is as to
whether it might be tax deductible?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Don't know yet, Ron.
JAMIE DIMON: Good question.
Page 11 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RON MANDLE: Okay, because it seems like the numbers they're putting out implied is tax deductible and they're
calling it a fee. Then in regard to not only the NPLs but also the criticized loans and various components were
down also. So I guess I'm surprised though a little bit that you aren't making more of a deal, or if that is perhaps
an inflection point?
JAMIE DIMON: That's what we have you for.
RON MANDLE: Cute, I like that, but in terms of the loans that you sold, were they within the marks that you had
them at?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, generally.
RON MANDLE: And then my last question is regarding-- ?
JAMIE DIMON: I think we had recoveries in some categories, so yes.
RON MANDLE: Would you like to quantify that?
JAMIE DIMON: Mike mentioned before, there was modest recovery and you saw that in the release of reserve
line.
RON MANDLE: Yes.
JAMIE DIMON: So it's in the numbers and Mike normalized it for you already.
RON MANDLE: Right, okay. And then in regard to the comp ratio in the Investment Bank, you were running at
38% for the nine months and then, as you say, got it down to 33% for the year for the various factors you
discussed. It just seems like it's going to be hard to get to 40% given where revenue seems to be. I don't really
see how you get there.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, it is up to us so that's how we get there. I mean, I would say if we were just trying to help
you normalize it, it would probably normalize closer to 40 or maybe closer to 38%, but remember we charge for
capital and expenses and it's profit-based and all that, so it could move around but I think a good rule of thumb is
to expect 40%.
RON MANDLE: Okay, and as you say you get a couple hundred basis point benefit for having a higher stock
component, but it seems to me that's a short-term benefit because eventually the stock vests and then you don't
get the benefit?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: That's right, that piece is the timing thing.
JAMIE DIMON: There's a reason why it might be close enough to 40% next year, if you amortize last year's stuff.
RON MANDLE: Right, okay. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning guys. Mike, just a quick question on the tax rate. I'm
assuming the tax rate is just sort of a year-end true-up thing. Could you tell us what a more normalized rate is?
Should we look at the third quarter as the normalized tax rate?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: I would look at the third quarter year-to-date and that kind of rate. Ignore the fourth
quarter true-up, and the fourth quarter effect should be put aside. Think about the third quarter year-to-date as a
good tax rate going forward.
JAMIE DIMON: 35% would be the level.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It depends on what people look at, reported or managed, so whatever you look at, look at
third quarter year-to-date.
NANCY BUSH: Okay, and secondly--?
JAMIE DIMON: But always remember when your earnings are lower than they should be, that rate becomes a lot
more volatile because of certain tax deductions and audits and stuff like that.
Page 12 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

NANCY BUSH: Right. Jamie, could you just update us on jumbo mortgage originations? You had started to sort
of return to that business in the third quarter. How are you looking at originating jumbos now?
JAMIE DIMON: Honestly I don't have-- do you remember the number, Mike?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: No.
JAMIE DIMON: We're doing more and we've got some slightly higher LTVs, but do you have the number?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: It's small.
JAMIE DIMON: It's still very small So we'll probably be doing more of it in the future.
NANCY BUSH: Okay, great, thank you.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks, most of my questions have been asked and answered
but I'm just curious whether Senator Dodd and Representative Frank had proposed the systemic resolution fund,
and President Obama called this the "responsibility fee" and that it was to repay TARP. Is it your understanding
that both are still on the table or is it one or the other?
JAMIE DIMON: You got us. We just know stuff like you see for the first time. It might surprise you we generally
agree with the concept that the industry should pay for its own clean up. But TARP got extended to a lot of things
other than banks, like insurance companies and car companies, so I don't understand why we should pay for that.
We've already paid for that.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Okay your next question comes from the line of James Mitchell with Buckingham.
JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi. One nitpicky follow-up, just deposits were up
$70 billion on a period end basis. Was that just some hot money at the end of the quarter? Didn't seem like it was
in the retail side, I guess more on the corporate side. Could you just give some color on that?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Yes. It was TSS year-end, corporate year-end activity.
JAMES MITCHELL: Should we expect that to kind of roll back off?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: To some degree. I mean I don't know where we sit but it was a little bit of a spike at the
end over the turn of the year.
JAMES MITCHELL: Okay, that's helpful, thanks. I'm all set.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Tanona with Collins Stewart.
BILL TANONA, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Good morning guys. Jamie earlier in the week you mentioned
commercial real estate and I think you referred to it as being a train wreck but having already occurred. I was
wondering whether that was something you were talking about specifically as it relates to JPMorgan or the
industry as a whole. I think there's probably some doubts that we've seen the worst of commercial real estate so
just wanted to expand upon your thoughts there.
JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, I would not refer to JPMorgan because we don't have a tremendous amount of real estate
exposure at risk though in the Commercial Bank a good chunk of our losses come out of the real estate side.
What I was referring to is that values are already way down. That's already happened different parts of the
country, 20, 30, 40%. We've seen new money come in and how it gets recognized on financial statements, some
banks have reserved for it, some of its come, it's probably causing a lot of the banks to go bankrupt, it's because
of their commercial real estate exposure. Some of it has been mark-to-market in CMBS, some held by pension
plans, what I referred to, I don't think it's going to be a tremendous hit to the economy from here. I think it's in the
numbers, it's in the values, it's in peoples minds and yes, quite a bit more needs to be recognized on certain
financial statements.
BILL TANONA: Okay, that's helpful. And then as you think about the commercial segment, I mean I know you
guys had very very strong reserves there but obviously given the uptick in the credit losses there, I was a little
Page 13 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

surprised that you didn't add a little bit more to reserves so just curious as to what it is you're seeing specifically
within that segment and why it resulted in those actions?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: We just did a very good end of the year scrub on everything in that space given all of the
focus on it and net of it we're still very comfortable with 3% reserves on a total book.
BILL TANONA: Okay, and then just lastly, certainly there's increased regulatory pressures on you guys and as it
relates to the US consumer. Just curious as to does this kind of change your thoughts or your outlook as you look
at potentially getting into international consumer businesses?
JAMIE DIMON: It doesn't change anything relating to international consumer businesses, which as you know
we're not in, so it's a big strategic issue that we'll deal with over time.
BILL TANONA: And that's what I meant in terms of does it change your outlook for strategically how you would
approach going after that business and what time frame?
JAMIE DIMON: No.
BILL TANONA: Okay.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill. Mr. Harte, your line is
open.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Can you hear me now?
OPERATOR: Yes, sir.
JEFF HARTE: Oh, good. Good morning. Looking at mortgage refis, the FHA streamline kind of rules have
changed so that kind of going forward, you'll have to kind of reappraise properties, reappraise or verify income.
Have you looked at that and how that will impact kind of your origination business for mortgages in 2010?
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: No, Jeff, I haven't. I can come back to you on that.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: That was our final question. I'll now turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
MICHAEL CAVANAGH: Great, thanks everybody for joining. Look forward to next quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Page 14 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Document FNDW000020100129e61f000dx

Page 15 of 15 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

