Q4 2010 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
14,000 words
14 January 2011
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English
©2011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's fourth-quarter 2010 earnings
call. This call is being recorded. Your lines will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live to the
presentation. Please stand by.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon and Chief
Financial Officer, Doug Braunstein. Mr. Braunstein, please go ahead.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator. I am going to take everybody
through the earnings presentation. It is available on the website, as you know and we will take questions after the
presentation. And finally, take a note of the slide in the back of the presentation regarding forward-looking
statements. With that, let me start on page 1.
We generated $4.8 billion of net income in the quarter, $1.12 per share. That is on revenue of $26.7 billion. For
the full year, you see we generated $17.4 billion in net income. That is up 48% over last year, $3.96 per share
and revenue slightly under $105 billion. Our full-year return on tangible common equity was 15%.
We are highlighting a number of significant items in the quarter. It is not every action in the quarter, but I just want
to walk through these quickly and make sure we have clarity around them. The first is we added a net increase in
RFS to loan loss allowances of what equates to $0.14 a share reduction in earnings. And just quickly, that $930
million pretax, does not include a one-time adjustment I will talk about when we get to Home Lending of $632
million release of reserves that corresponds to an increase in net charge-offs, which is basically a wash, but I will
get into more detail later on that.
Card, we reduced our loan loss allowances by what equates to $0.30 a share increase in earnings. We also took
an increase in litigation reserve, predominately mortgage-related, that reduced earnings $0.22 a share and
additionally, at the end, we recognized a $1.2 billion pretax or $0.18 a share after-tax gain in Corporate. And that
is largely related to the repositioning of our securities portfolio and in addition, that is going to have a negative
impact on NII in successive quarters.
Broadly speaking, very solid performance across most of the businesses, but I will talk about each of those in
turn. And then finally, just a note on our common ratios. Tier 1 Common ended the year at $115 billion. We had
very strong Basel I Tier 1 Common ratio of 9.8% and you see here our estimated Basel III ratio of 7%, which, as
you know, is the minimum requirement for January 1, 2019.
JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: This is Jamie for one second. So Doug, I just
want to reiterate, a lot of you raised the question that reserves came down by $2 billion. On this page, you see
them coming down by approximately $1 billion and the difference is the $600 million, which we have accelerated
charge-offs, which are already recognized and reserves taken down and then this other $400 million, which is all
various wholesale type stuff. So there is a little confusion out there about where that came from, but the $600
million obviously as a timing difference didn't affect income. Charge-offs were accelerated, reserves were taken
down.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So with that, I think we have covered most of page 2 and 3, so let me dive into the
Investment Bank on page 4. You see circled net income of $1.5 billion. That is on revenue of $6.2 billion in the
quarter, IB fees of $1.8 billion. We continue to be ranked number one in fees, but it is an increasingly competitive
market and you see that in the results. The results also reflect a record in debt underwriting for the quarter, as
Page 1 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

well as for full-year 2010 and also record Investment Banking fees in Asia for 2010. The league table results you
will see are on page 20 in the back.
Revenue of $4 billion in fixed income and equities. That is up 8% year-over-year. It is down modestly
quarter-on-quarter and that is largely based on continued solid client flows and normalized trading spreads. One
quick note on DVA, which was effectively flat for the quarter. Fixed income markets, excluding DVA, would have
been down $377 million quarter-on-quarter, essentially flat year-over-year. Equity markets, excluding DVA, would
have been down $141 million quarter-on-quarter, flat year-over-year and that really reflects the negative impact of
DVA to revenue in the third quarter.
Credit costs here, a benefit of $271 million, so that is part of that $2 billion allowance that you saw in total. That
largely reflects a reduction in loan loss allowance related to net repayments and loan sales.
Expense in the quarter are $4.2 billion. That is up significantly year-over-year. That is primarily due to higher
performance-based compensation year-over-year. The comp to revenue ratio for the quarter is 30% and there is
also an increase in our non-comp expense and that includes litigation reserves taken in the quarter.
Full year, if you look at comp to revenue ratio, it is 35% excluding the UK bonus tax and that is largely consistent
with our prior guidance of 35% to 40%. It is up from 33% in full-year 2009 in part because of higher headcount.
And going forward, we really expect full-year comp to revenue ratios to continue to be in that range of 35% to
40%.
Final number circled here on the bottom of the page, end-of-period loans of $56.9 billion. That is up 6%
quarter-on-quarter and we are beginning to see that new business activity build and as a result of that, some
increasing demand in loans as the market for credit and the economy generally pick up.
Page 5, Retail Banking. This is the consolidated results. For the fourth quarter, $708 million of net income on $8.5
billion of revenue, and I am going to review each of the segments in detail on the following pages.
So if you turn to page 6, you see Retail Banking net income of $954 million. That is on revenue of $4.4 billion.
Revenue are down 2% year-over-year and that largely reflects lower deposit-related fees, full-year impact of
NSF/OD fee changes and that is offset by our continuing buildout of the retail branch footprint. Deposit growth
was 3% year-over-year. Checking accounts were up 6% year-over-year, investment sales up 4% year-over-year
and as you know, we built 154 new branches. 70% of those branches are in California and Florida. You'll note
here, by the way, credit costs here include a loan loss allowance reserve release of $100 million in business
banking. Again, part of that $2 billion number.
Mortgage Banking and Other Consumer Lending, you see circled net income of $577 million. That is on $2.8
billion of total revenue. Revenue here reflects strong Mortgage Banking origination revenue, higher production
volumes, almost $51 billion in the quarter, $56 billion in total originations and you also had improved margins
year-over-year.
We are separating out now repurchase expense. You see that number, $349 million and remember that is a
contra revenue item. The number is down $300 million year-over-year. It is down $1 billion quarter-on-quarter and
that is largely the absence of reserve builds, but we end the year in RFS with a total repurchase reserve of $3
billion.
Expense in the quarter of $1.7 billion. That is up almost $400 million quarter-on-quarter, $600 million year-on-year
and that largely reflects higher default-related costs, but it includes an impact of the estimated cost over time
associated with the foreclosure delays from the affidavit issues. We took that cost in the fourth quarter. Credit
costs in this segment also benefited from an allowance release in auto finance of $150 million as the trends there
improved.
The real estate portfolio on page 7, this is the consolidated result. Lower revenue here of $1.3 billion. That is
largely based on continued loan run-off. Our balances declined year-over-year $29 billion as we continue to run
off the Washington Mutual portfolio. Losses in the portfolio for the quarter of $823 million and the total credit cost
number of $2.3 billion. I think it is helpful if we cover that in detail on page 8, so I will turn to that now.
So there is a lot going on here. I am going to take a little time on this page. Home Lending net charge-offs as
reported is $1.750 billion and you see that on the left. Now that includes that $632 million adjustment that I
referenced at the beginning, Jamie talked about. That is related to the timing of when we take charge-offs on
delinquent loans.
Page 2 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

And so what we have effectively done is accelerate our net charge-offs for delinquent loans and we have
correspondingly released the $632 million number in our reserves. So it is essentially a shift in geography from
reserves to charge-offs, but this doesn't have an impact on our results for the quarter. But that $632 million is
picked up as part of our total Company allowance release.
If you really look at the underlying fundamental picture, absent the changes in accounting for the fourth quarter,
you see the circled number of $1.15 billion, which is basically flat to modestly improved over the third quarter. And
it is largely in line with the delinquencies trends we have seen over the second and the third quarter. You see in
the specifics, home equity losses are flat and the mortgage portfolios are showing some modest improvement
and you can see more detail of those trends on page 18 in the appendix.
So given the reductions quarter-on-quarter in the losses and the fact that delinquencies are basically flat to
slightly improved, we have taken a reserve release in the Home Lending portfolios of $950 million in the quarter
and you see that as the last bullet on the right.
We are also, as a result of the last three quarters, changing our outlook. You see our outlook quarterly net
charge-offs of plus or minus -- I'm sorry, $1.2 billion plus or minus, and that is really based on current
delinquencies and the severity outlook that we see today.
The last change on this page, if you look at the PCI performance on the bottom right and remember, for PCI, we
are using lifetime loss estimates for the portfolio and as we have previously told you in our third-quarter call, the
estimates assume an improvement in delinquencies. And I think given our last several quarters of actual
experience, as a result of that, we have increased our estimates on remaining lifetime losses for the portfolios.
And the result is we are taking a $2.1 billion incremental impairment in PCI and that is predominately related to
home equity.
So with all those actions, we thought it would be helpful to just summarize the reserve positions around
mortgages in general and so we are doing that on page 9 and maybe I can try and give you the key takeaways
from our perspectives going into 2011.
The first is on the agency side. Between the $5.6 billion that we have taken in both expense and reserves and the
$1.2 billion plus or minus guidance that we have for 2011, we believe we have got a pretty good chance here of
being done on the agency repurchase side and this is certainly consistent with the analysis that Charlie presented
to you all in the fall.
JAMIE DIMON: And that they do.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And it is certainly consistent and in fact, a number of you think we are more than well
reserved on that topic.
On the private label side, based on our current circumstances, we have significant reserves and you have to
remember, private label exposure, there are very significant differences in the nature of the reps, the warranties,
the quorum rules than for the GSEs.
So to give you some perspective on what we think that means, if you are in the range of the private label
repurchase exposure that have been recently published by a number of analysts on this call, and you follow what
we have taken in mortgage-related litigation reserves during the past year, you should feel pretty comfortable with
where we are going forward into 2011.
On the real estate portfolio side, $9.7 billion in reserves in real estate portfolios, excluding PCI. Basically we have
more than two years of coverage based on our annualized fourth-quarter net charge-off rate. And through the
year, we have also added $3.2 billion to our purchase credit impaired reserves. So based on those current
conditions, we believe we are really well reserved going into 2011.
Page 10 is just an update on the foreclosure process. I will give you three key takeaways. First to remember, we
continue to work very hard on avoiding foreclosure. It is not good for us or the borrower or the economy and there
is a number of facts here and I just highlight we prevented more than two times the number of foreclosed assets
during the course of the last 24 months.
When we do foreclosures, obviously, those mortgages are very often delinquent for many months. At the time of
foreclosure, the homes are often vacant. They are non-owner-occupied and often times, the owners there don't
qualify for modification.
Page 3 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Having said all that, as you know, we suspended our foreclosures in September and October and since then, we
have really enhanced our process. We have retrained personnel. We have revised our processes and added
additional quality controls and as a result of that, we have been resuming our foreclosure proceedings across the
country.
Page 11, we will turn to Card Services for the quarter, net income of $1.3 billion on revenue of $4.2 billion. This is
really the first quarter since -- first quarter of 2009 that we are breakeven. We made $61 million on a pretax,
pre-loan loss reserve income basis.
Credit costs are, again, the big story in this quarter. They are down significantly to $671 million. As you see, the
two circled numbers at the bottom of the page, our charge-off rate was 7.08% for the Chase portfolios, excluding
WaMu. That is an improvement of 100 basis points quarter-on-quarter. It is also lower than our prior guidance of
[7.50]% plus or minus and that is largely due to continued improvement on credit, as well as the improvement in
the economic environment.
30-day delinquencies declined to 3.66%. That is down almost 50 basis points quarter-on-quarter and based on
that decline in delinquencies, we are taking a $2 billion pretax reduction on our loan loss reserves because of the
lower estimate for future losses.
Just a quick moment on outlook for charge-offs. Chase and WaMu, both those portfolios we expect to see
charge-offs improve in the first quarter and losses for the Chase portfolio we expect to see below 7% in Q1 '11.
$4.2 billion worth of revenue quickly. That is flat quarter-on-quarter, down year-on-year. That is largely down on
lower outstandings, 100% impact this quarter in the run rate for the CARD Act and that has been offset by
positive sales volume, excluding WaMu up 10% year-over-year, 8% quarter-on-quarter. And note here, we really
believe we have outpaced the industry growth and as a function of that are really improving our marketshare as
more people take their Chase cards out of their wallets at the store.
On the balance side, we are reiterating the balance guidance I gave you in the third quarter. That is $120 billion
plus or minus by year-end for the Chase portfolio.
Page 12, the Commercial Bank, just a quick moment on full-year comments for this business not on the page. We
had record revenue of $6 billion for this business this year and record net income of $2.1 billion. On the page, you
see circled net income of $530 million. That is on record revenue for the quarter of $1.6 billion. That is largely
better spreads, higher Investment Banking fees, actually record Investment Banking fees for this quarter for this
client set. And that has been offset by lower average balances quarter-on-quarter, year-over-year.
Credit costs of $152 million, that reflects a trend of continued charge-offs in our Commercial Real Estate segment
and that has been offset by improving strength in our C&I portfolio. 60% of the net charge-offs in the quarter are
real-estate related. And if you look down at the bottom of the page, one other credit statistic to highlight, NPLs are
down significantly to $2 billion, down almost $900 million quarter-on-quarter.
The last number circled here, loan balances of $98.9 billion. That is up modestly again in this quarter after last
quarter's improvement as well. We do continue to see some positive signs of activity in the middle market.
Balances are up 11% year-on-year and some of that is driven by demand, some by new client growth. For the
year, we added 1600 clients approximately in the middle market, 400 new clients in the quarter. But a word of
caution, utilization rates across the Commercial Bank continued to remain flat through the last quarter of the year
in the low 30s.
Page 13, Treasury and Security Services, you see circled net income of $257 million in the quarter. That is up
year-on-year slightly and quarter-on-quarter, revenue of $1.9 billion. Same story on revenue. We are continuing to
see pressure from a lower rate environment and that has been offset by growth in our assets under custody. They
ended the year at $16.1 trillion. That is up almost $1 trillion year-over-year, as well as we saw an increase in our
trade loan balances as we continued to build out our international footprint. Expense in the quarter are up $79
million, or 6% and that is largely reflecting the same theme of that ongoing investment primarily related to the
international expansion.
Asset Management on page 14, again, a little full-year commentary. It was record revenue for the year of $9
billion. That was based on record long-term flows of $69 billion and that was really a function of very solid
investment performance across the complex.
For the fourth quarter, you see circled net income of $507 million in the quarter. That is up year-on-year off a
quarter-on-quarter and net income is actually at its highest level since the fourth quarter of 2007. Asset
Page 4 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Management had record revenue in the quarter, $2.6 billion. That is up almost 20% year-on-year and
quarter-on-quarter. That is based on strong net inflows into those products with higher margins. We did have
outflows in liquidity products of $25 billion in the quarter, but that was offset by $23 billion in long-term product
inflows. That, by the way, is the seventh consecutive positive quarter of long-term inflows in AM.
We also had positive effects obviously from the higher market, as well as strong fourth-quarter performance fees.
We also had a significant increase in our mortgage production business. We did $7.8 billion in mortgage
production in Asset Management this year, $3.4 billion in production in the fourth quarter. You see expense
growth higher. That reflects higher headcount, performance-based comp and some continuing investments in
technology across the platform.
One last comment on the headcount side. We have added 500 people to our front office across the globe in Asset
Management, a little under 40% of that internationally during the course of the year.
On page 15, you see Corporate/Private Equity. Private Equity gains of $178 million in net income. Remember,
that is going to vary quarter-on-quarter, realizations and market value for the portfolio, but it was a solid quarter
for private equity. Corporate loss of $149 million in net income. That is really three factors at work. The first is NII
is down quarter-on-quarter. It is down year-on-year and that has largely been the repositioning of the portfolio that
we have been talking about through the course of the year.
Second is we did have security gains as a function of that repositioning of $1.2 billion pretax, but again, that is
going to pressure NII going forward.
And then the third is we took that $1.5 billion pretax increase to litigation reserves predominately related to
mortgage matters in this quarter.
One quick note on guidance here is, excluding Private Equity and excluding nonrecurring items, we still believe
the net income for Corporate should be $300 million plus or minus on a go-forward basis each quarter.
Page 16 Fortress balance sheet, I really covered the top of the page. The one comment that I would add is that,
given the expected growth in our capital positions both through 2010 and forward, we remain hopeful that we are
going to be able to return capital to our shareholders both through an increase in the dividend, as well as share
repurchases when appropriate. And we obviously wait on the results of the FCCP process to get back to on that.
We have addressed all of the guidance issues in each of the lines of business. So with that, operator, why don't
you open up for questions for Jamie and I? Thanks.
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.
JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, hi, good morning. Doug, a question on net interest
income. The run rate looks like about $12 billion this quarter, $48 million annually. $1 billion. What are the puts
and takes for 2011 when we think about the net interest margin and NII at the top of the house?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So NIM is down about 13 basis points quarter-on-quarter. That has been a function of the
repositioning we talked about, a little less positive effect from dollar roll financing. We would expect NIM to be flat
to minus 5 basis points in the first quarter of this year.
The broader question on NII, in general, you are going to have offsets between what we have shared with you as
run-off in our portfolios in RFS and Card and those are things that we have been -- that is WaMu-related in large
part and we planned to do that and that is offset by what we see as beginning trends in growth in our loan
portfolio across wholesale.
JAMIE DIMON: So Corporate NIM will be down quite a bit, the dollar amount, but we have given you the guidance
in that and Card will be down $500 million or $600 million as it runs off and the home equity -- the run-off in
mortgage is about $700 million (multiple speakers). Those will be disappearing next year.
JOHN MCDONALD: Is it your hope that new growth will offset the run-off and you can have the balance sheet or
earning assets be flattish or even up this year?
JAMIE DIMON: We don't really know yet because it is hard to tell, but Card -- what we said is it will start to grow
maybe late in the year because most of the run-off will be gone, but the mortgage stuff will be running off for
years.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then a question on the -Page 5 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: We may even not replace it and Corporate is completely discretionary. And we have decided to
reduce the exposures in some of the portfolios there, reducing Corporate net interest income.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And John, the one other comment I would make, as we run off these portfolios, it is also
going to be liberating capital for us and so that is the other thing to keep in mind.
JOHN MCDONALD: Right. Yes, you have been pretty clear about that. I guess on the putbacks, Doug, when you
say that you have a good shot at being done on the GSE side, does that mean that you will likely use the reserve
to absorb future realized losses or do you just mean that you probably won't do any more reserve building?
JAMIE DIMON: I think early in the year, we will probably be expensing that stuff, but you all -- a lot of you have
done your own numbers showing that we are probably fully reserved. So once it is really determined we are fully
reserved, we will probably be hitting that against the reserve.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then just one quickie on the private label, the litigation reserve -JAMIE DIMON: What he means is we are fairly done give or take a little bit. We don't -- obviously, there's a little
bit to play out here.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, that's fair. A quick question on the private label. Are you able to add to the reserves
for private label even if the claims haven't come in yet based on your own estimates or are you only going to add
litigation expense based on what you currently see as claims coming in?
JAMIE DIMON: It has got nothing to do with claims coming in per se. We make our own judgments about how we
are going to go about handling it. Most of it will be securities litigation. You all, again, have done your own
estimates in that and those range from -- for us -- $3 billion to $10 billion or $12 billion or something like that.
I think the way to look at it is we've, and maybe uniquely, have put up litigation reserves for it and we don't know
what the ultimate number could be. We can be higher or lower. We are not saying we are done, but it is going to
be years before this plays out. And this litigation is going to be fought almost securitization by securitization.
There is almost no other way to do it. Very high -- you have got causality. The reps and warrantees are low. You
have got to do it loan-by-loan. It is going to be a long ugly mess. The important thing is it is not going to be
life-threatening to JPMorgan and it will be years before we know the ultimate outcome.
JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.
BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. A couple quickies and then a
couple of just strategic questions. So on the mortgage originations, you obviously had a nice pick-up Q-on-Q as
the applications closed this past quarter. Could you give us a sense of how far through that pipeline you are and
what the outlook is for mortgage originations over the next quarter or two?
JAMIE DIMON: I really -- Betsy, I did not check, but they have to come down because the originations have come
down and I just didn't look at the pipeline. I would be surprised if there were $50 billion of closed loans this
quarter.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So you think you -- you got through most of what the -- the spike in apps?
JAMIE DIMON: I would think so, yes, because, remember, that stuff usually is like 60 days and the last month
was pretty low.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. On loan demand, I know it is hard to predict what is going to happen over the course of
the next year, but could you give us a sense as to how loans came in relative to expectations in 4Q and was there
any incremental change throughout the quarter? And one of the reasons I am asking the question is because
obviously you had the long end of the curve move up. Does that incent people to get into C&I in any material
way?
JAMIE DIMON: Are you referring to -- are you referring to any particular segment here?
BETSY GRASECK: Card and Commercial.
JAMIE DIMON: Okay. So the Commercial Bank loans have been up middle-market -- other loans -- remember,
we also bought a portfolio. The middle-market has been up every quarter the last three or four quarters, not
Page 6 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

because of utilization, just more loans and we think that is a very good thing. It could be a little bit of marketshare,
but I anecdotally hear from other people that there is loan growth there too.
So our early indicators are that we will continue to see loan growth this year and early indicators are people
requesting it and industrial production and inventory numbers and all the things which could drive kind of loan
demand.
In credit card, yes, there is going to be a seasonal drop in the first quarter. And I have got the number -- that is
always going to be 4% or 5%. Plus, for us, you have got $3 billion of run-off. So the drop could be something like
$10 billion in the first quarter. By the third -- so the run-off is a couple billion dollars a quarter after that, but
underlying that, we are actually seeing some growth now. So you might actually see net growth by the fourth
quarter.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then separately on regulation, rule writing is obviously in process and I just
wanted to see how you are thinking about protecting your revenue and profit in the derivatives business.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, the rules haven't all been finished yet, but we are obviously preparing -- we are going to be
a great derivative house, okay? So if you want to go through us and go to a clearinghouse, we will be prepared -and it is possible volumes will go up. So we gave you guys a number, like a $1 billion loss potential revenue, but
we don't really know. We have seen a lot of things that go to clearinghouses, volumes go up, spreads can change
a little bit, but it might be a net plus. But you could assume that we are building rapidly to make sure we are the
best out there in the new world.
BETSY GRASECK: Just because one of the questions on your business is that you are benefiting from a credit
spread, relative credit spread benefit because your rating is higher. So how do you protect for that in an
environment where you go to an exchange and the rating isn't worth as much?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, that's a very good point, but it is one of the reasons there are issues about exchanges
where you, in effect, socialize the credit -- you socialize both credits. You socialize the credit of the company that
might have been providing credit and the credit of the company getting credit. So that is why we look at that -- that
piece of it will be a possible small negative. But we don't know how it is all going to sort out. Like we are not quite
sure what the margin rules will be for end-user exemptions and we will see.
Remember, a lot of the end-user exemptions, the reason they want to do business with JPMorgan is we will give
them the benefit of their credit and they get the benefit of our credit as opposed to an exchange where neither
happens.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then last on the Durbin piece, Durbin obviously came in last quarter. Does it change
how you are thinking about your deposit pricing, changes that are underway or is there anywhere else you think
you can make it up?
JAMIE DIMON: Let me make just a statement about Durbin. Part of what happened in Durbin was this notion that
retailers pay zero for cash and zero for checks and they were paying 70 to 80 basis points per debit card. Well,
the fact is cash costs retailers and there are a lot of studies done on this, 30 to 70 basis points. They have got to
process it, handle it, move it, insure it, bank it. They need registers and there is a lot of defalcation. What is that
called when -- checks cost also 70 basis points for all the same basic reasons.
So debit was just -- as a matter of fact, a guaranteed check, which is the equivalent to a debit, like get your
money right away and it is guaranteed, you are not taking the fraud or credit risk, is $1.20, 1.2% if you want to go
guarantee a check. So that was a false premise.
The other false premise is that somehow, in a fixed cost business, you can price variable cost and survive. No
business in the world can price its product at variable cost and survive. And so this debit thing had an enormous
benefit for consumers. Even for retailers, it was faster and how this happens is completely beyond us and we
have to figure it out. You can't price your products at variable cost and survive as a business. So we are going to
have to figure out a way and we want to do it as consumer-friendly and fair, but, of course, the consumer has got
to pay and they weren't paying for debit before.
So we don't exactly know. We are going to test a whole bunch of things. Remember, we might just charge for
checking, you might charge for debit, you might just have higher deposit balances and you are right, you might
keep a little bit more spread. So that is all going to sort out both in the competitive sense and a legal sense as we
figure out how to deal with it.
Page 7 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

But our biggest concern right now is to do it in a way that is as consumer-friendly as possible. We also think it will
have the adverse consequences of making a portion of current bank clients unbanked. You will not be able to
profitably serve them. And my current estimate would be about 5% and I am not sure that was a good public
policy issue either.
BETSY GRASECK: 5% of what, of your customer base?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the general banking customer base may be pushed out of the banking system.
BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. First of all, just a
comment. That outlook page that you used to do was actually pretty useful even though, yes, you do go through
the different units, so I would be a fan of putting it back in.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Okay.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: A question, first of all, on the litigation reserve. Is it fair for us to assume that that $1.5
billion that went through Corporate is largely for private label mortgage or is there some expectation of foreclosure
settlement in there?
JAMIE DIMON: It is largely for private label mortgage and mortgage-related type of stuff. Foreclosure settlement
-- we don't have any foreclosure settlement, but there was hundreds of millions of dollars of higher costs that we
kind of either expensed or accrued for the delay in foreclosures for the affidavit issue.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And that is in the mortgage business.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: That is within RFS?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Correct.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And separately, within the Investment Bank, there was about a $700 million or so swing in
the non-personnel expense from the third quarter to the fourth. Reading the press release it sounds like maybe a
lot of that is litigation reserve building as well or did I misinterpret that?
JAMIE DIMON: No, you read it right. And that number, obviously, when normalized, would go back to a -- the
non-comp number, go back to more normalized, 1.6 or 1.7 a quarter.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. And we should we assume that a fair amount of that is from mortgage stuff as well or
--?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No.
JAMIE DIMON: No, a whole bunch of stuff. The detritus of the storm.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. And also, speaking of swings in the Investment Bank, there was about an $800
million swing in credit portfolio revenue versus the third quarter. That probably doesn't have any provision
impacts, right, because it is just a revenue number? So I was just wondering if you could help us understand that
swing.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, so remember the credit portfolio -- it's a hard one but it, on a normalized basis, should earn
about $200 million or $300 million a quarter. And think of that as NII. But in addition to that there is hedging and
hedges and up or down, so it swings all over the place. We try to manage that economically, not for steady GAAP
revenue.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, that is fair. The fixed income VAR had a notable decline in the quarter and again that
really continued to trend, so it's down quite a bit for the year. Is that just a decline in volatility of some
instruments? Is it that you have actually reduced risk and is that reduction mostly in rates or credit or where?
JAMIE DIMON: You are right; most of that -- I think the largest part of that is just from dropping more volatile
quarters from last year.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: That is right.
Page 8 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: So that number is coming down for no reason other than you are changing the data set that goes
into the calculation, which is one of the reasons I personally never paid that much attention to it, because it
changes without any good reason. It is not -- there was no conscious effort to take down risk, etc., and that is
done by desk, and I don't think there was any particular area where it was dramatically different than others.
There are a couple that are coming down, but it is usually the trader is making decisions on that particular book.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks. And the final question I have for you is just looking at the AOCI, it had a negative
$2 billion swing in the quarter. I wouldn't make a big deal out of it, I guess, because it is still more than it was a
year ago, but is that mostly due to what happened in the treasury market in the quarter?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, and we also realized $1 billion of gains.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Right.
JAMIE DIMON: We also realized $1 billion of gains. It's the realized gains that reduces the AOCI because that
would have been there. And remember, we did that early and we are doing that to protect -- not just protect the
AOCI, but if you look at our interest rate exposures, we are positively -- if rates, long rates go up, it will help us
and if short rates go up, it will help us a teeny bit. So we've positioned the Company for raising rates and I think
we did it a little bit early, saving (multiple speakers)
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Yes, I know you were talking about it a year ago or more.
JAMIE DIMON: Right.
GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Nomura.
GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Hey there. So I think we all are now in
agreement that you are pretty well reserved on the agency side. I am curious, it might be a moot point, but I am
curious, is the waiting on the WaMu decision in the way of a potential settlement and just putting it behind you on
Fannie and Freddie?
JAMIE DIMON: No, we had settled most the GSE stuff -- the GSE putback rep and warranty issue had already
been settled regarding WaMu. That had been done some time -- a year ago or something.
GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Then I will rephrase. Is it of any interest to pursue the settlement route or kind of a moot
point given your reserve position?
JAMIE DIMON: It is kind of a moot point, but if they wanted to settle it all at once, it would be fine with us.
GLENN SCHORR: Got you.
JAMIE DIMON: It is getting more and more developed. The loss curves are getting more developed. They know
their own numbers. We know their numbers look, both Fannie and Freddie are working with us, giving us files, we
look at the files, we turn them back, we're just trying to all get it behind.
GLENN SCHORR: And should we hear any day now phase on who is on the hook for WaMu?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: So the bankruptcy settlement -JAMIE DIMON: Who is on the hook for WaMu for what?
GLENN SCHORR: On the private label, potential liability going forward.
JAMIE DIMON: We think they are and (multiple speakers)
GLENN SCHORR: So do I, but we are waiting on a judge, right?
JAMIE DIMON: Well, that's a different issue. There is a whole bunch of stuff (inaudible) WaMu to settle and
finalize all the stuff. Then there is the private label. WaMu is about a third of the private label. We think that they
are responsible for that piece. Again, the analysts, you all have done estimates on this and between our reserves
and even some of your estimates, it's going to take a long time to resolve. And so my attitude is it is going to be
resolved, it may be more, it may be less, but it is not going to be terrible for us whether or not WaMu takes their
one-third.
Page 9 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

GLENN SCHORR: Great, great. Jamie, I wanted to ask you (multiple speakers)
JAMIE DIMON: It is behind us, but the big piece is, and now it is going to go on for years. I don't think this stuff
will be -- we'll be talking about this every quarter for the next three years.
GLENN SCHORR: Hopefully, we will have better things to talk about, but I hear you.
JAMIE DIMON: I hope that people get more and more comfortable that while we are talking about it, it isn't like
something that is going to change the future of JPMorgan. It is just going to be a few adjustments in a few
quarters up or down when this is all resolved.
GLENN SCHORR: Good. The second question is related to this stress test and the capital plan that you just put
forward. I am curious, on the stress tests that both you just performed and the one that is being performed now
versus the last stress test, if you can articulate what the major differences might be. In other words, last time, I
think they took a very harsh look on trading. It didn't pan out that way. How do you see the adjustments to this
stress test versus the last?
JAMIE DIMON: I would say it is similar and higher unemployment, home prices going down and we do this
ourselves anyway by the way and stress testing market results and stuff like that. But a lot more detail. I mean a
tremendous amount more detail and in any event, even under highly stressed environments, JPMorgan is going
to be retaining an awful lot of capital. We are looking for ways to use that capital. (multiple speakers)
GLENN SCHORR: Thank you. Your comments were that over the next three years $40 billion to $50 billion
versus $30 billion and highly, highly stressed?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes and whether they come up with similar numbers or not, I don't know, but the fact is we are
going to have plenty of capital and we also think that 7% Basel III is plenty of capital. In fact, I think the stress
tests will confirm that. Not just on us, on all the banks. That is what capital is for, to deal with stress and for the
most part, I think banks will be able to deal with a lot of stress at 7% Basel III. I mean we are starting to add
capital on top of capital at this point.
GLENN SCHORR: All right, thanks very much.
JAMIE DIMON: And I remind you of the Basel -- 7% Basel III is more akin to 11% Basel I. The first stress test on
Basel I was 4%.
GLENN SCHORR: By the way, before I let you go, do you feel like you are making progress with Washington on
that front specifically because I feel like initially other companies might've said, well, it is 7% and there might be a
buffer on top and you add a little bit on the edge on this one and I think a lot of people agree with you, but just
curious on if you have made some progress?
JAMIE DIMON: No, I think the regulators are looking at the issues and this is a world, global issue because a lot
of regulators overseas think there should be a lot more and some think it is sufficient. And I hope America takes a
rational position and a leadership position. That is what I hope. We don't have to do what everyone overseas
thinks should be done. We should take a leadership position in the United States what we think is appropriate and
I personally -- I think 7% is plenty. I think you could make many arguments why some of the big companies were
stabilizers in the storm as opposed to systemic risks in the storm.
GLENN SCHORR: All right, thank you both.
OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.
MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. What are you doing to manage your exposures in Europe in light
of what is taking place there and what impact did Europe have on your current quarter results? I see that EMEA
revenue were down 7% in the Investment Bank linked quarter. But just more generally, what is the impact and
what are you doing to protect yourself or maybe to potentially capitalize?
JAMIE DIMON: We had disclosed at one point that our net exposures were $20 billion in the GIPSI countries.
That number is down substantially now, but the important part is that we also continue to do business there with
sovereigns, with Corporates, with governments, with institutions because we have a lot of clients. And so we are
letting the client side do that and obviously those exposures could come back and haunt us at one point, but we
are not going to stop doing business in those countries.

Page 10 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

So the business is just down a little bit. I don't think there is any mystery to it and are there opportunities we get
from it? Yes, I think the opportunities come from continuing to service our clients, not running. That is the real
opportunity, that people know you are there for the client in good times and bad times.
MIKE MAYO: And what about acquisitions? What is your general appetite and what would be your appetite in
Europe if there was a Bear Stearns or a WaMu type situation there?
JAMIE DIMON: I wouldn't count on something like that. We believe the highest use that we can ever do is organic
growth. And if something came up that really made a tremendous amount of sense, (inaudible) our obligation to
go look about it and think about it, but I am not sure that will happen.
MIKE MAYO: You seem kind of sanguine about Europe or you don't seem too alarmed by what is taking place
there.
JAMIE DIMON: Well, are you talking about for us or for the system?
MIKE MAYO: Well, talk about both then. I mean it seems like what could happen to the system could impact you,
right?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, we are going to continue to do business in all those countries. We have clients in all those
countries. They rely on us, we want to be there for them. We are not a fair weather friend and could we lose
money from that? Absolutely. We could be making a mistake, but that will be okay. We are supposed to be there
for them in good times and bad times.
I personally think that Europe will muddle through this situation. They have demonstrated, and I think the
regulators and the leaders have demonstrated that they are going to fix this. It is a little bit of stop and starts. A
little -- obviously there is some disagreements, but you have seen a lot of very strong statements that they are
going to get through this. And I would bet on that. I think that is the likely outcome. Now we are not betting the
Company, but I do think that is the likely outcome. I do think over time they have got some serious structural
issues they have to fix.
MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, what was the impact of Europe on TSS this quarter and can you just elaborate on
why TSS had such good linked-quarter growth?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think Europe had any effect on TSS at all. I know we did much better in trade finance -- did
better in trade finance.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We had -- linked quarter, we get a little bit of an impact from the ADR business, which is
up quarter-on-quarter and a little better impact from assets under custody. But I am not sure. We can get back to
you on the specifics for Europe, but, in general, that is a quarter-over-quarter change.
MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.
MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. I guess, as you mentioned, Jamie, the
litigation on private label is years away and you pretty much -- you had -- that $1.5 billion was kind of plus or
minus the level that you had every quarter this year. Is that something that we should be looking forward to in
2011? Do you feel pretty good about where that is right now?
JAMIE DIMON: I feel pretty good about where it is right now.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Yes, I think you should -- and that's (multiple speakers). The other question is -JAMIE DIMON: We have got to react to circumstances, but more likely than not, you'll see nothing next year for
that category.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it.
JAMIE DIMON: And we like to keep our balance sheet clean and just move on so we have moved on.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. And secondly, I mean you are probably going to be the only one that can truly say
that they are at the 2019 capital levels and (multiple speakers)
Page 11 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JAMIE DIMON: I would just like to make a comment about litigation because I did mention before about the
detritus of the storm. I think it is also reasonable that after you have had a storm like this, like the litigation follows
years later, so I am not saying there won't be other litigation. My experience has been that things will, and you
have seen tons of it. Some of it is completely frivolous, but some may not be and so I can't say there won't be any
litigation expense next year of size.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right. But not in the $1.5 billion quarterly level?
JAMIE DIMON: No.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Secondly, saying that you are at the 2019 kind of Basel requirements already, and you
have still got run-off portfolios there and yet you talked about pulling down the discretionary, some discretionary
parts of your balance sheet, what could cause you, particularly now with somewhat steeper yield curve, to start
rebuilding that? How should we think about that in 2011?
JAMIE DIMON: I guess we have normal business growth in 2011, which will use some of the balance sheet and
we are still waiting for final guidance from the regulators on what the capital requirements are going to be, etc. But
listen, we can build the balance sheet much quicker if and when we feel it is appropriate.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I will add there are some things -- there are components of our balance sheet that we plan
on running off that were part and parcel of some of the mitigating actions as the impact of Basel III takes place.
So there are going to be some assets that we will change over time because they are very high utilizers of RWA
on a Basel III basis and those will come off balance sheet regardless of whether we are building other
components of the balance sheet.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right. No, I wasn't referring to those. I was referring more to like WaMu run-off portfolios
and other pieces of your mortgage business that are still in the rundown mode.
JAMIE DIMON: We always have -- we could always make a portfolio decision to put assets on the balance sheet
to create more NII. That is why I always talk about excess capital is earnings in store. You can use it whenever
you want, just use it wisely and use it at the right time. We don't want to do that and have huge unrealized losses.
We are actually trying to protect ourselves from that.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: And sort of as a follow-up to that, obviously a few things have to happen even after the
Fed makes pronouncements on dividends that probably -- with respect to stock buyback. Could you just talk
about your thoughts as to the regulators and stock buyback at this stage?
JAMIE DIMON: They have said that when they finish all this work, which will be -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Late March, March 21.
JAMIE DIMON: Late March, that they will be giving companies guidance on capital. So that capital to me is
dividends and stock buyback. And at that point in time, and if we have a little more guidance on the ultimate
outcome of what the capital needs to be, like it is going to be more than 7%, our Board will take the appropriate
action. I hope we will be able to institute a dividend right away.
MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Thanks very much.
OPERATOR: Jason Goldberg, Barclays Capital.
JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. In the Investment Bank, it looked like
nonperforming assets were up a little over $1 billion linked quarter. Anything in terms of color in terms of what's
driving that?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, it's just due to a large asset moved to nonperforming and remember, nonperforming has
specific reserves against it, so we are not worried about that at all.
JASON GOLDBERG: And then I guess secondly, and I know it's sort of tough to call, in the last several years, we
have seen a drop-off in trading in the fourth quarter and then a nice rebound into the first quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: We noticed that.

Page 12 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

JASON GOLDBERG: Obviously, we are only two weeks into the first quarter of this year, but can you just give us
any sense in terms of how you are thinking about the FICC line near term just given the volatility (inaudible) that
has on earnings?
JAMIE DIMON: You mean how trading is doing so far this month, is that what you're saying?
JASON GOLDBERG: That and just kind of your near-term expectations.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know. You guys can guess as much as we can. So far, the year has started off pretty good
and look, you can have a very good year in trading in Investment Banking this year, but your guess is as good as
my guess, so use your own.
JASON GOLDBERG: Got it. Thank you.
OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.
PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. Hey, Jamie, on the dividend, a lot of
people expect you to -- you have been talking about raising your dividend, but how aggressive do you think you
can be? I know the Fed has talked about a 30% payout ratio. Do you think you can get to that quickly or will that
take a couple quarters?
JAMIE DIMON: Why don't we just wait and get the guidance from the Fed about what it is going to be? What we
have spoken about is that we would like to get to eventually back to 35% of normalized earnings. If the Fed gives
guidance that they wanted to be at 30% of normalized earnings, then we have to limit it to 30% of normalized
earnings. They are our regulators and remember me, I prefer don't pay dividends at all so we can use it for some
other purpose down the road.
PAUL MILLER: And then the other issue is that there is a lot of discussion -- there are a couple of articles out
there about the dropping servicing fees to zero and to restructure the mortgage industry along with it. What are
your thoughts on that if you have any?
JAMIE DIMON: Again, I would defer that. The treasury is putting out some guidance on the GSEs. If you change
servicing, that changes how you price mortgages and how you account for mortgages. So it is not going to
change the mortgage business per se. You are still going to originate and service mortgages. It will just change
the asset on the balance sheet and accounting. So I am not worried about it. I would just prefer to wait to see all
the guidance that comes out from the government and how it all sorts out.
PAUL MILLER: Wouldn't that help you guys out though on your Basel capital rules because if something like that
went down the road that MSR would be a lot lower than it is today?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but it is still under -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: It doesn't have a big impact on our Basel III capital.
JAMIE DIMON: Because it counts up to 10% or 15% -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: 10% and 15% in total for a number of items and we are not very far off that.
JAMIE DIMON: And basically we would probably restrict MSR to 10% of the balance sheet if that were the case
unless it was really, really profitable in which case, we will take the capital charge and put it back on.
PAUL MILLER: Okay. And just one other tidbit question on the HELOCs. Well, on the $600 million acceleration,
was that all -- was that mainly referring to WaMu or was that across the board?
JAMIE DIMON: That was across the board.
PAUL MILLER: Across the board. Okay, thank you very much, gentlemen.
OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.
MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. If I could just look at expense at the top of the
Company, if I back out the $1.5 billion litigation in Corporate and then several hundred million of mortgage
foreclosure, all that stuff in RFS and I think several hundred million also in the Investment Bank, you basically
have got a run rate of expense in the $55 billion range. How are you thinking about that level going forward
outside the Investment Bank? And I am asking because you have been investing heavily in a lot of your
Page 13 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

businesses and I am just trying to get a sense of how much more investment spend is needed and how that might
track going forward.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think it is investment spend. I think it is just -- the way you should look at it, these expense
will grow with our businesses over time. I don't think we have massive additional expense we are adding in
addition to that. There are a lot of expense, which will eventually go away. You mentioned -- there was a little over
$300 million from the affidavit thing this quarter. There is $300 million of foreclosure expense. There is -obviously a lot of the mortgage charge-offs will reduce dramatically over time, but it is not through expense and
there was obviously the litigation stuff, which hopefully won't be re-occurring. But I look at it by business. It is very
hard for me to look at the aggregate.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, you went into some detail on the balance sheet repositioning
of the securities book. I guess one thing that is interesting is I look at the size of your securities portfolio and
guess at where the yield is going to be. It is a fairly low yield and if I compare it to your long-term debt, you are not
really making any money on it.
I know that is not a perfect way of looking at it, but it is probably the only bank I cover that would stream like that.
So I guess the question is are all these securities that you have on the balance sheet, are they needed for
liquidity or over time, could we start seeing more efficiency to the balance sheet, which it might be smaller, but a
higher NIM and free up some capital?
JAMIE DIMON: So some of that was moved to what I would call spread product, which has the exact effect of
what you're saying, but it protects you in a rising rate environment. And so -- which we thought was a wise thing
to do. That portfolio is used to both reinvest excess deposits and to balance all the asset liability management of
the Company and right now, we are asset-sensitive. We just think that is the right place to be.
Can we change it and reduce the size of that portfolio? Absolutely. But those are portfolio -- big portfolio
decisions, which we try to make at the appropriate time. And you really can't look at it relating to the long-term
debt. I mean the long-term debt is -- a lot of it is swapped and a lot of the assets are also swapped.
MATT O'CONNOR: But if I am looking at the debt and you are growing a lot of your core funding quite nicely, the
balance sheet is not growing all that much and there is still a pretty big chunk of the long-term debt that, over
time, I would assume run off and I don't know what the plans on reissuance there would be.
JAMIE DIMON: We have -- I'm at $23 billion of turns this year.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Yes, we will be in that ZIP code of plus or minus $30 billion.
JAMIE DIMON: Depending -- right now, we are playing for kind of good organic growth and we don't know the
capital rules. It is possible, when all that comes out, we may not issue all that debt. It is possible that we will do
other things with the balance sheet and figure out how to -- but all of it will be done to protect the Company and to
make good money for the shareholder.
MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thanks.
OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.
MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Two quick questions for you. First, a
bigger picture question. I am just curious if you have any thoughts about the implications for the industry from last
week's decision in the Massachusetts Supreme Court and the Ibanez ruling and how quickly that whole
foreclosure issue might get decided in Washington if there is any momentum in DC to mitigate that risk going
forward?
JAMIE DIMON: I am not going to give you a specific legal (inaudible). Every state is different and the facts of
these things are different and we said right from the beginning, you are going to see a lot of state differences,
local differences, court differences and we have kind of built that into our thinking.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, but you don't think that there is a push in DC to have a more broad or more
comprehensive way of thinking about that going forward?
JAMIE DIMON: There might be, but I hope -- but it would be the same kind of thing is how do you finish and
properly process foreclosures. And I don't think this one thing changes the mess. It is a big mess, it has cost us a
lot of money. I personally think we are well along the way, we are more through this whole thing and
unfortunately, the only way to do it right is name by name by name. There is almost no other way to do it properly.
Page 14 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Person by person, home by home, are they occupied, did they lie on their forms, are they entitled to a HAMP, are
they entitled to a modification. We will do as many as we can. There is a lot of paperwork. The paperwork is
different in every single state.
There are mistakes made and I remind people the affidavit process was not the foreclosure process. There were
multiple checks and balances and there may be mistakes made in the foreclosure process, but they are very few
and boy, when we find them, we try to make up for them right away. And obviously, as this issue has been heavily
politicized and in some cases mistakes were made and they are being pointed out and they should be fixed.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, thanks. And then a quick administrative question. I notice that US non-interest-bearing
deposits were up about 10% quarter-over-quarter. Is that largely just Corporate deposits coming in or is that also
consumers?
JAMIE DIMON: US -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: US -JAMIE DIMON: I missed it, so I don't -- do you know the answer, Doug?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Just go through that one more time? What was that?
MATT BURNELL: I am looking in terms of the -- on page 39 of the supplement, you have US offices
non-interest-bearing deposits up about 10% from September 30 at $242 billion.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: We will get back to you on that one.
MATT BURNELL: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.
ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI CAPITAL: Good morning. Could you give us any kind of quick update on what
your opt-in success has been so far and how much -- the percentage you think you might recover of lost overdraft
charges related to Reg E? And then quickly any other comments on what you might be doing in 2011 from a
mitigation standpoint around the deposit side?
And then I know you said you wanted to sort of test a lot of things related to Durbin. Is there any, in your mind,
just sort of right now, and I know there is a lot to learn, but is there any real way to make up much of that Durbin,
lost Durbin revenue or do you expect that most of that will just be lost? Thanks.
JAMIE DIMON: I don't know the opt-in percentage. Do you remember it?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Well, -JAMIE DIMON: Just give approximate.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Approximate, for those who used it before, approximately more than 50% opted in.
JAMIE DIMON: Right. And the full run rate effective, that is already in the number.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Already in the numbers and we told you that is $700 million in net income and that was full
run rate in 3Q and now 4Q.
JAMIE DIMON: Right. And then on the Durbin thing, you have to -- you can't run your business where you are
charging things at variable cost. So in some ways, we are going to have to look at ways of repricing the business
and that may not come from a price you see, it may just come from higher -- you have to keep higher deposits on
balance to have reduced fees. It may come from checking account fees. You have already seen a lot of people
around the country eliminate free checking. But I think ultimately, ultimately, most of that will get repriced into the
business. It is very hard to run a business where you can't charge for your products.
ED NAJARIAN: But you do think that you have got a good shot at getting a good chunk of that revenue back?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, but it will take time (multiple speakers) and we are very conscious of doing it right. Like
design the right products for the right people, it may drive -- like I said before, it may drive some clients out of the
business into the non-banks because there may be no way to reprice those clients since you can't collect other
fees. Maybe the accounts are too small and remember, for a whole bunch of clients, it may not matter that much
Page 15 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

at all. They already have high balances. They are already quite profitable. So we will have to figure it out and we
are doing a lot of thinking and a lot of testing. So remember, it is effective July, so we still have a little time to
figure it all out.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then in terms of overdrafts, we should think about 3Q and 4Q as the trough and
maybe a reasonable growth rate off of sort of a 4Q number as you get more impact from customers opting in?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I would -DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I would think of it more as just a run rate going forward.
JAMIE DIMON: Just as run rate normal and customers are going to get careful how they do things. So we are not
looking for it as a growth item, it is just another item on the income statement.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay, great. Thank you very much.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: I just want to go back on that, our first two quarters next year, because the phase-in was
over time, will be down quarter-over-quarter because of the impact, the full-year impact of the overdraft.
ED NAJARIAN: Okay.
OPERATOR: David Konrad, KBW.
DAVID KONRAD, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Hey, good morning. All my questions really have
been asked, but just a follow-up on the material decline in NPLs and Commercial Banking. Just any color there
regarding -- is it CRE, multifamily or more business lending?
JAMIE DIMON: Some of it we sold and got rid of and reduced, but I don't know if there was any particular -- it
wasn't real estate particularly.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: The balance of the NPLs is more balanced towards real estate. So as we brought it down,
it was predominately real estate, but it was across the board.
DAVID KONRAD: And how much was due to selling NPLs?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't remember. We periodically do that to keep it clean and move on. I would say, when we
have been doing it, it has been economic to do so. So in large part, the reduction in NPLs were either reserved for
or actually got some recoveries as a result of that.
DAVID KONRAD: Okay, great. Thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: We are economic analysts. We don't do that to show lower numbers. We do that because we
think it is the right thing to do to manage our credit portfolio economically.
DAVID KONRAD: Great, thanks.
OPERATOR: David Hilder, Susquehanna.
DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP: Thanks very much. Sorry, my questions
have all been asked and answered. Thanks.
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, just if we could go back to the trading environment
a bit. This is sort of the third quarter in a row of sluggish trading revenue industrywide. And I wondered -- do you
think it's -- is it just a lingering impact of concern about Europe and so on or is there something structurally
different in the world? I mean that is things like less mortgage-backed -- less non-agency mortgage securities out
there, so less trading opportunity there and less CDS riders and therefore less opportunity there? Is it something
structural or is it just the overhang of euro concerns?
JAMIE DIMON: I don't think it is structural and I don't think it is an overhang of euro concerns either. I think it is
just the ebbs and flows of trading. Rates were very strong early in the year and I know came down a little bit. The
last couple of weeks in December are almost always low. Credit has been very strong all year and I think it was a
little slower this quarter.
Page 16 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: Slower in the quarter.
JAMIE DIMON: So it is just -- trading changes. That is the way it is. But I don't think it is either structural or
Europe.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, all right.
JAMIE DIMON: So far this year, it has started off pretty good.
CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thanks. That's all for me.
OPERATOR: Richard Bove, Rochdale Securities.
RICHARD BOVE, ANALYST, ROCHDALE SECURITIES: Hi, I apologize for my voice. On page 20 of the
handout, you show a pretty sizable decline in marketshare and rank in each one of -- quite a number of your
Investment Banking positions and I am just wondering what happened there.
JAMIE DIMON: Right. I think the first answer is I think we had a -- I am not going to call it artificial, we had a
bump-up in '09, which I think we told our shareholders we expected to come down a little bit in 2010 because the
competition has come back full force, which I think is a good thing, so I am not -- we knew it was going to happen,
but it happened. So I think that is part of it.
Over time, we have kind of gained share and then there are some other areas, equity, a lot more done in China, A
shares, which we can't do that we just got licensed to do it, M&A. A couple of the deals we had didn't happen. But
we are comfortable with our franchise. We think we have a fabulous Investment Banking franchise and we will
defend it.
RICHARD BOVE: The other question is on the balance sheet. If you take a look at Citigroup or Bank of America's
cash position and their net Fed funds position, they seem to be overloaded with cash. Whereas, on your balance
sheet, if I net out the Fed funds position against your cash position, you don't seem to have as a goal driving up
the liquidity on the balance sheet. So I am wondering what is the difference in philosophy between the two
companies, the two groups of companies.
JAMIE DIMON: First of all, we feel like we have a lot of liquidity. I know Edward is showing his liquidity ratios,
these new liquidity numbers, but I am not sure they are all equally done nor are all businesses the same. So if
you had a big retail business, you may not feel the need for that. If you had a big wholesale funded business, you
might feel the need for a lot more of that. So we feel fine where we are. If we wanted to drive that number up, we
can easily do that at no cost to the Company. But I am not sure why that would help us.
And the other thing I look at, which is important, is if you look at our balance sheet, there is a $300 billion portfolio,
mostly very high-quality stuff. There is a lot of short-term assets, repo and we have, what is it, a $1 trillion of
deposits and $700 billion of loans. And we look at that as a very stable funding source. And that is true in almost
every single business. The deposits are far in excess of loans. That is even true in middle-market.
RICHARD BOVE: I hope you convince these people in the regulatory area that the industry now does have an
excessive amount of capital relative to any time in its history and it is just a ridiculous position. But thank you very
much.
JAMIE DIMON: And we just -- I just saw your report that came out and between capital and these LCR ratios, the
LCR hasn't all been issued -- isn't all finished either, but there are some serious issues about how they look at
certain types of deposits and certain types of revolvers.
RICHARD BOVE: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Jeff Harte, Sandler O'Neill.
JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning, guys. A couple of follow-up questions. One, on the
fixed income trading side, it is easy to talk about fixed income trading has been soft the last couple of quarters,
but if we compare your fixed income trading revenue the last couple of quarters to pre-2009, they have been
really, really good. How do you think about more of a secular outlook as far as fixed income trading, where it was
for JPMorgan and kind of where it is going for JPMorgan?
JAMIE DIMON: I think the way you should look at -- I think we have built a world-class trading business. I think if
you go back several years ago, that wasn't completely true. We had extremely volatile results. We weren't as
Page 17 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

strong in a lot of areas. Now we are strong in a lot of different -- we have always had some historical strengths.
We are still building the commodity side, which we are going to continue to build. And if you look at shares, like if
you look at Greenwich Reports and other people report shares, our shares have gone up dramatically in trading.
I'm talking about over years now. I am not talking about over quarters.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: And the last thing I would remind everybody too is, in '09, which was record revenue, that
is in part because spreads blew out quite significantly and so we are looking at aggregate numbers here where
volumes are up, spreads have normalized and revenue on a historical basis are pretty solid.
JAMIE DIMON: Does that answer your question?
JEFF HARTE: Yes. And then secondly, you mentioned the selling of nonperforming loans. Is maybe an
acceleration of that activity or more sales more a function of finding better bids or deciding to sell at lower prices?
JAMIE DIMON: Again, we are purely economic, so we are not going to sell something just to sell it and sell at low
cost, but sometimes you think it is worth X, the buyer thinks it is worth a little bit more than X, sometimes they are
better able to handle it. They are more local, they are more capable, etc. So I wouldn't read anything into that
other than it is the normal pruning of what we do and how we look at our exposures. And I don't think it had any
material effect on the numbers this quarter.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: No, in fact, it was net positive.
JAMIE DIMON: Right. But not materially.
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: But not materially.
JEFF HARTE: Okay. And I am even thinking as much from an environmental standpoint if their risk appetites are
up and there is more aggressive bids out there.
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I think there is a little bit more risk appetite over -- as the year progresses, there was more
risk appetite for people to take on things like that.
JEFF HARTE: Okay, thank you.
OPERATOR: Carole Berger, Soleil.
CAROLE BERGER, ANALYST, SOLEIL SECURITIES: Yes, just one technical because Glenn asked my
questions, of course, but why the change in the timing for the net charge-offs? Did you move towards industry
standards? Are you leading the industry towards a faster charge-off?
DOUG BRAUNSTEIN: (multiple speakers) 632. I think it was largely just based on our own observations and
experience relative to the delinquent loan portfolio in Home Lending. It was nothing more than that.
CAROLE BERGER: Okay. And Jamie, would you like to give us a preview or a plug for your Analyst Day in
February?
JAMIE DIMON: Yes, well, our folks are working hard. I mean if you have questions, and stuff you want answered,
just send them into Lauren, but you are going to hear from every business and we will talk about the future of the
growth opportunities. We will have obviously balance sheet returns, targets. We are going to try to cover the
whole shebang for you and we feel great about the Company.
If you look at the underlying results here, we are growing, we have got a lot of businesses, they are all doing quite
well. They have done well through this crisis. We never stop making money, we never stop investing, we never
stop marketing, we never stop helping clients around the world. So this Company -- I think the future is extremely
bright and in spite of all the headwinds. I think if you are an owner of bank stocks, you can make a long, long list
of all kinds of things hanging over banks, regulatory Basel and I think there is some truth to that. But also during
the course (inaudible), some of those things will be resolved and we will go on. They may have negative effects,
positive effect and there are always unintended consequences, but there is a chance some of those will be
positive too.
CAROLE BERGER: Thank you.
JAMIE DIMON: Folks, thank you very much for spending some time with us and we will be talking to you soon.
Page 18 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web
site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current
expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any
forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified
in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove
inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the
forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN
THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON
FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO
REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S
SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
Document FNDW000020110128e71e000e1

Page 19 of 19 © 2020 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

